<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="story">
            <h1>LIFE ON OTHER PLANETS?</h1>
            <h2><i>By</i> <span class="uppercase">Edward Podolsky</span></h2>
            <h3>Is any world other than Earth capable of sustaining life? Scraps of irrefutable testimony seem to indicate that some can—and do!</h3>

            <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">M</span>ANY years ago a curious stone resembling a meteorite fell into the Valley of the Yaqui, in Mexico, and a sensational story spread over the country to the effect that a stone bearing human inscriptions had come down from the sky. Even more curious than this was the discovery, in 1851, of a piece of auriferous quartz, about the size of a man’s fist. When the scientist, who had been examining the strange stone accidentally dropped it, it split open and a nail was found in it! Yet again, during a violent storm, in 1887, a small stone fell from the sky at Tarbes, France. It was 13 millimeters in diameter, 5 millimeters thick, and weighed two grams. The object had been cut and shaped by means similar to human hands and human intelligence.</p>
            <p>Those who, at the present time, contend that there is life on other planets base their belief on conclusions arrived at through the agency of the microscope and spectroscope. Meteors, for instance, which have come to the earth’s surface have been subjected to the most exacting microscopic as well as chemical analysis. Under the microscope, particularly, they have revealed the mineralized forms of such lower animals as the crinoids (to which family the star-fish and sea-urchin belong) and corals and sponges.</p>
            <p>Not only have these aerolites revealed the existence of lower forms of life on other planets, but peat and coal, as well, have been found. And further still, chemical scrutiny has revealed water and even oxygen on some of these meteors.</p>

            <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">O</span>NE of the most interesting of these meteors fell near Knyahinya, Hungary. It weighed 550 pounds and is now in the Vienna National Museum. Dr. Otto Hahn, a distinguished physicist and geologist, wrote the following report :</p>
            <p>“The forms in this Knyahinya meteor are simple organic ones, such as sponges. coral, crinoids, etc., small but perfect in external and internal organic structure.</p>
            <p>“Only the soft parts are lacking. All the rest is preserved, even as it lived and moved in water. The crinoid stems showed this most plainly, for these are notably curved, wound up, entangled, and though occasionally broken, one sees their weak resistance to their impinging neighbors. The half-round lobe divides itself into layers, these into tubes, which branch, forming arms which a canal unites. Then it develops itself into a crown between the arms, and the point of their growth, and the simplest crinoid is there...”</p>
            <p>A chemical verification of the examination of the meteor by Hahn was undertaken by the great German chemist, Cohen, who drew up a report of his finding. Examining other meteors he found the presence of hydro-carbons and oxygen. Those meteorites whose fall is accompanied by luminous effects precipitate upon their surface a brownish black powder which Cohen found contained 71 per cent carbonaceous matter. Some meteors contained 6 to 11 per cent of water.</p>
            <p>The most astounding revelation of the spectroscope is the fact that chlorophyl exists on the planets Uranus and Neptune, the two most distant worlds of the solar system. Those who realize that all non-parasitic plants contain chlorophyl, and that it is found in all living vegetable cells, are aware that the demonstration of chlorophyl on these two distant planets shows rather conclusively the existence of living matter. Chlorophyl is a chemical related to the proteins. It is absolutely essential to plants for it enables them to prepare food from raw mineral matter.</p>
            <p>Of course, there are many scientists who will not accept these demonstrated facts of the microscope and spectroscope. There are many, on the other hand, of equally great prominence who believe that life has been proved to exist on other planets.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
