<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="story">
    <h1>THE FORBIDDEN DREAM</h1>
    <h2><i>By</i> <span class="uppercase">Ross Rocklynne</span></h2>

    <p class="blurb">Ganymede was an outcast world—a fallen Titan. But deep in the brain of her empire-conscious race was the formula of a cataclysmic weapon that would one day smash the universe.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps3">I</span> SLIPPED through space in a one-man rocket, scarcely comprehending the stars about me, and yet, two months before, I had been a well-informed scientist! Now, suddenly, in my thirty-first year, I was entirely stripped of the precious scientific knowledge for which I had studied through fifteen years in a half-dozen colleges on a half-dozen planets!</p>
    <p>Nothing remained but the instincts, acquired traits, and a layman’s knowledge of the universe.</p>
    <p>Incomprehensible—yes. But true.</p>
    <p>Two months before, I was called into the presence of my employer, the president of the Tellurian Science Research Institution, and had been waved to a seat opposite him.</p>
    <p>“Sid,” he said worriedly, “war is about to break out between Earth and Jupiter. I guess you know the reason, but I’ll review it. From no one knows where, a large piece of radium floated into the solar system. Naturally, every planet wanted it, and we were lucky enough to get it. The other planets took it with good grace—except Jupiter.</p>
    <p>“Now she’s mad at us, and three or four months will bring war. Nobody will win, but both will lose—heavily. The whole thing will be quite senseless. Now if we had a weapon superior to any now known, Jupiter wouldn’t dare attack us.</p>
    <p>“There is only one such weapon of which we know, and it is not in material form. It is locked up in the minds of a people who live on Jupiter’s third satellite, Ganymede.”</p>
    <p>He surveyed me quietly. “You’ve heard of that, I suppose, though it’s hardly more than a legend.</p>
    <p>“Thousands of years ago the natives of Ganymede held sway over a large empire—an empire which embraced, historians say, all the major planets, and the larger asteroids. Today the race is almost extinct. Fifty of its members remain, and they live on Ganymede.</p>
    <p>“In the past, no way has been found to secure the secret. If it were in our possession now it would prove invaluable.</p>
    <p>“Now, however, a means has been found. You are aware that, ever since interplanetary travel became an established thing, people realized it would be impossible to live on or visit worlds of which they were not native due to differing gravities and atmospheric pressures, and the quality of the atmosphere itself.</p>
    <p>“A genius discovered the only way out by inventing a complex machine which is used on every planet where there is intelligent life. The idea underlying its invention was not to use your own body, but a body native to the world in question. A large business has sprung up around this invention, and it is called Transmitted Egos, Inc.</p>
    <p>“The Ganymedans run a branch, of course—they are compelled to do so, under planetary law. Offhand, you’d think that it would be simple to just rent a body, pay the additional charge for retaining instincts, acquired traits and learning, and then ferret that mind’s secret from it. Not so. Obviously only a skilled scientist <i>could</i> read that secret; so the Ganymedans have a test in which they read your mind itself. If you’re a scientist, they’ll only give you the instincts. If you’re not a scientist, you can use everything, for you won’t be able to translate the secret even if you’re aware of its existence.”</p>
    <p>I interrupted. “But that lets me out. They’ll discover at once that I’m a scientist, and will refuse to give me anything but instincts.”</p>
    <p>“You won’t be a scientist much longer,” the chief smiled. “We’re going to drain from you practically every bit of scientific knowledge you possess.”</p>
    <p>“Spin the rest of it,” I told him, a sinking feeling in my heart.</p>
    <p>“You’ll be able to pass the test the Ganymedans give you, and the results will be negative. You’ll receive the entire mind, minus a slice of consciousness necessary to keep your own body alive. But in your ignorant state, you won’t be able to decipher the secret.</p>
    <p>“In order that you can, I will have sent a layman, probably your own friend, Will Carrist, to the moon beforehand, and with him will go the record of your learning. You will go to the moon, and on the pretense of having made a date with him there, meet him. He will assist in transferring your learning back to you; then you will be able to understand the secret Ganymede guards so zealously. You then return to the Bureau of Transmitted Egos, and come back to Earth. It’s that simple.” “Any danger from Jupiter itself?”</p>
    <p>“A condition of war will not manifest itself for some months. There will be no danger from that source.”</p>
    <p>“No other catches?”</p>
    <p>“None—provided you are careful.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>T had been done as he said, and now I was a layman, hardly knowing the basic principle under which the rocket I rode drove me through space.</p>
    <p>I landed on Ganymede, a bleak little moon about 3,550 miles in diameter, and a light surface gravity.</p>
    <p>Although Ganymede is almost half as large as Earth, the horizon appears to slope away swiftly. To my right I could just see Jupiter, striped with broad bands. She filled almost an entire quarter section of the sky, and the lower half of her was eclipsed by her moon—that is, she was just setting. On the left the sun, a coppery disk the apparent size of a dime, was just rising. There was no night on Ganymede at this time of its short year—which was seven days, three hours and forty-two minutes long; most of the time there was just a pale, hazy sort of twilight.</p>
    <p>I landed in front of the Bureau of Transmitted Egos about 4 p.m. Earth time. I selected the heaviest helmet I could find, and donned heavy metal shoes. In this manner I increased my weight to about three-quarters normal.</p>
    <p>I pushed open the door of the domed building, and strode in. No one was about. There was a bell hanging from a rope, and I clanged on it impatiently with the little hammer, and waited. It seemed that very little business came to this uninteresting little sphere, containing as it did only fifty inhabitants and one ruined city.</p>
    <p>I gave the bell another blow, and heard motion from the adjoining room. A little, wizened old man, with hooked nose, great ears, short limbs, gigantic chest and leathery skin, entered. Less than three feet in height, he stood staring rudely up at me until I feigned impatience, though what I felt was uneasiness.</p>
    <p>“Come, man!” I shouted in the universal tongue. “I can’t stand here all day! I want a transferral! To your business!”</p>
    <p>He mumbled something or other, but the thick helmet and thin air between my ears and his voice did not enable me to catch the words.</p>
    <p>He stood behind his desk and started shouting at me.</p>
    <p>“What’s your profession?”</p>
    <p>“I’m a psychologist,” I told him. “I’ve come here to write a chapter of my book, ‘Psychology of Races.’ For that reason I wish to use as much of the mind as you find it possible to give me!”</p>
    <p>He surveyed me distastefully. “Are you a scientist?”</p>
    <p>“No,” I quite truthfully answered. “By Lord, quick about it! I’ve got an appointment with a friend that arrived here some days ago.”</p>
    <p>He pushed a blank toward me. “Fill this out.”</p>
    <p>When I had finished, he took the blank and beckoned me into a room.</p>
    <p>A peculiar machine stood in a corner, but with my layman’s mind I could make nothing of it.</p>
    <p>The gnarled gnome beckoned again.</p>
    <p>“You men of the other planets,” he said, without any pretense at politeness, “are all liars. How do I know you’re not a scientist? You have to take the test, otherwise you don’t get anything but the instincts.”</p>
    <p>“Well, I’m willing,” I told him with a sneer. “I’ve heard of you Ganymedans. You guard your secrets well. Don’t be afraid; I won’t steal them.”</p>
    <p>“Into the chair,” he snapped.</p>
    <p>I sat in a chair attached with various wires to the contrivance behind me. These Ganymedans certainly did not pay tribute to the niceties of politeness. He jerked off my helmet, leaving me gasping. I lost my temper but before I could make up my mind to hit him he had clamped another down on my head.</p>
    <p>“Gas will come through that helmet in a moment,” he snapped. “Breathe deep; I can’t have any mental resistance.”</p>
    <p>I had never taken the test before, and wasn’t at all sure what would happen. I started to get up, but at that same instant the gas hit my nostrils. It carried me away like a leaf on a spring wind.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE next thing I knew I was still sitting in that chair, breathing in pure oxygen from my own helmet. The old Ganymedan was standing before me.</p>
    <p>“You are,” he said contemptuously, “as ignorant as a dog. Your book will never sell!”</p>
    <p>He hobbled away, and I followed. I entered a vast room, the walls of which were covered with involved, inter-connected mechanical contrivances. It required the operation of this entire machine to transfer personalities between two bodies.</p>
    <p>The Ganymedan, grumbling still, pointed to a metal chair which, with its snaky wires and cables twisting away from it, reminded me most forcefully of one of those devices used centuries ago to eliminate dangerous criminal talent from the world. I seated myself.</p>
    <p>The old man then struck a large gong above his desk. He used a measured cadence which at the moment made me think that it might be some sort of code he was using. I later learned, to my peril, that such was the case. The clanging sounds echoed and re-echoed in that room, and fled from the building out into the thin air of Ganymede, reaching, presumbably, to the ruined city wherein lived this moon’s fifty inhabitants.</p>
    <p>“A few moments,” he said in his crackling voice. “They will hear that bell, and one of them will come to transfer with you. The charges will amount to 1500 univers. That includes taxes.”</p>
    <p>1500 univers: 2000 dollars.</p>
    <p>“And,” he resumed, “if the body is injured fatally you must consider your own body forfeit, and all your possessions will revert to us—to be divided equally among the inhabitants of Ganymede. That is planetary law.”</p>
    <p>He spoke these words in a kind of hiss, and his eyes shone with a deadly light that for a moment made me feel cold At that time I did not know the reason for tbis strange exhibition, but later, when I had possession of my temporary body and most of its mind, I knew it quite fully. Death is the most dreaded of all things on Ganymede. And the people who live on it have quite a logical reason for it, too, considering their terribly depleted numbers.</p>
    <p>“I understand that,” I told him. “Let’s get to the business quickly. And don’t forget I wish to retain the entire mind.”</p>
    <p>His eyes narrowed, and suspiciousness flooded his face.</p>
    <p>“You seem over-anxious,” he said through tightened lips.</p>
    <p>I snorted in derision, but secretly cursed myself. I had certainly been more insistent in my demands than necessity demanded.</p>
    <p>“You’re a fool,” I taunted. “I am a psychologist. That should be sufficient reason. Curse it, where is that fellow?” I snapped angrily.</p>
    <p>He turned away, mumbling, while I feigned irate impatience. He came back and started connecting wires to a sort of metal harness which he draped about me. He then went about snapping switches that soon had the whole room lit up with sparkles and flashes that presented an eery display. I felt an awe at these machines, even though, two months before, I could have built duplicates of them without resorting to the use of blueprints.</p>
    <p>A back door opened and a wiry little fellow, a newer edition of the old man, came in and for a moment stared at me with insolent, hating eyes. I returned the stare. It fascinated me to know that this, in a few minutes, would be my body.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE young Ganymedan hopped into his place, and his older counterpart threw the metal harness over him and connected it with the machine. He then took up a position at his control board, and I saw great cables tense like garden hose as a load of power went through them. In the ordinary sense of the word I did not lose consciousness, but saw the whole proceedings. There was a ringing in my head that droned up and down. I stiffened, and felt tiny forces plucking at my consciousness, forces that changed my very mind into vibrations that sped along metal cables, finally impinging on the brain of the body I was to occupy, there translating themselves back into actual brain stuff.</p>
    <p>I then experienced the most peculiar sensation in the universe—that of being in two different places at the same time. I saw myself sitting in that sinister chair through the eyes of the dwarf, and simultaneously saw the dwarf through my own eyes.</p>
    <p>It made one feel cold and crazy, for my consciousness was swiftly oozing out of my mind into his, and a proportionately smaller amount of his was oozing into mine.</p>
    <p>This went on for some moments, occupying a stretch of time that appeared like eternity. I felt like yelling. The sensation was too eery to describe logically in words.</p>
    <p>I knew the transmission would be completed shortly when I saw the body of the dwarf fade from my sight, and my own gain lasting prominence.... I soon knew, beyond doubt, that the transferral had been accomplished.</p>
    <p>I looked across the room at my face, a cold chill racing like a comet up and down my back. My features had relaxed from the keenness which I fondly imagined had been its outstanding characteristic into an expression of dull, idiotic apathy. I doubt if that body of mine even knew it was alive, for the small bit of the dwarf’s consciousness which it possessed did not have sufficient power to tell it so.</p>
    <p>Except for the lack of this tiny section of consciousness, I was a complete and actual dual personality, with the exception that my own ego could not be supplanted in the least measure by that of the dwarf. At once I became fully enlightened on the customs and history of this race, and knew at once all remembered details of the ancient city in which its remnants lived. I knew at once that strange, old language they used amongst themselves, and felt, for one instant, the morbid hate which the race entertained for beings other than members of that race.</p>
    <p>I was more interested in that corner of the mind which refused to be explored. It was as if cloudy veils were stretched there, and through that layer of veils I could glimpse shadowy visions of a complicated mechanism which defied all my efforts to focus its details. This much alone could I grasp: its powers of destruction were terrible.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE harness was removed from about me, and I jumped from the chair with the spryness of a monkey, stumbling clumsily as I did so.</p>
    <p>The old fellow fairly boiled. “You be careful!” he snarled at me, his eyes glittering. “The body is not yours! Remember, you will make a heavy reparation if it is injured fatally! That’s law!”</p>
    <p>“Calm yourself,” I said to him, in my new, crackling voice. “This measly body will not die!</p>
    <p>“Now,” I continued, “to the business of payment, and a receipt.”</p>
    <p>The Ganymedan glared frostily, but paid me no immediate attention. He unfastened my body from its place, and roughly, venge fully, led it across the room and into another. I followed, remembering that one always watched his body being shelved.</p>
    <p>Although I had gone through this experience before on other planets, I must confess that each additional body transferral always made me feel strange and unreal. That was my body the old Ganymedan was leading away, and it did not seem comprehensible.</p>
    <p>The room in which I now found myself was small, and lined with shelves with sliding glass doors. Within each small compartment was a machine which regulated the air pressure and humidity, and even the quality of the air itself.</p>
    <p>I helped the wrinkled gnome lift my body to its shelf, saw him unsnap my helmet, and let it hang loose. I then rifled my pockets of money, and other sundry articles, and handed the station master 1500 univers. He stuffed it in his large, sack-like pockets, and regulated the air machine, afterward snapping the glass door.</p>
    <p>I looked about the room in the meantime, and found, on a shelf adjacent to mine, Will Carrist’s body. He had arrived, then, and had made a safe transferral. I watched with fascination the slow, rhythmic rise and fall of his heavy chest.</p>
    <p>The old man then wrote out a slip in triplicate, and signed all three. One he gave to me, another he pasted on the glass case wherein lay my peculiarly beastial-looking body. The other he stuck in his pocket, from which it would be stuck into the corporation’s files.</p>
    <p>Everything completed to my satisfaction, I turned and walked away, out the door and into Ganymede’s thin atmosphere. However, I experienced no discomfort, having as I did a body quite used to conditions on this world.</p>
    <p>I followed an ill-defined road, but my eyes, accustomed to the half-light which obtains on this planet, felt no difficulty in picking it out. It twisted and twined for probably a mile, finally leading me into the city proper, a great ruins containing the remains of monster edifices, pierced in hundreds of places with unlit, glassless windows. A sense of desolation brooded here like a living thing. This was the only city left from the great revolution which had reduced the once great race of Ganymede to its meager fifty inhabitants, who, like rats, lived in whatever shelter they could squeeze themselves.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span> WENT directly to the house of my accomplice, knowing its location quite well, for every inhabitant of this strangely populated world knew it.</p>
    <p>It was not much; merely a stone hovel with a stream of heavily mineralized water running through it. I knocked on the door, and then pushed it open.</p>
    <p>I knew quite well that that was Carrist there reading, for my Ganymedan’s brain told me so. However, he could not know vit was I standing there; and this was borne out by the fact that he only stared, showing no sign of recognition.</p>
    <p>However, we had had to arrange some sort of signal before either of us left Earth, and that signal had been to whistle a few bars from Indsa Bindsa, an operetta which had run on Mars for two of its years, and now threatened to run a full ten years on Earth.</p>
    <p>I pursed my lips, or rather tried to purse my lips. I couldn’t do it! I stared open-mouthed, while Carrist sat there looking at me, a bewildered expression on his face. Then I knew. Ganymedans can’t whistle! Their lips cannot form themselves into a shape necessary to accomplish it.</p>
    <p>For a moment I was at a loss, but then I opened my mouth and sang it. I sounded as if someone had rattled a sheaf of yellowing papers. However, Carrist got the drift, and jumped to his feet, as if someone had dropped a match into a can of explosive; rather, he jumped to the feet of the body he was using.</p>
    <p>“Sid, by Lord!” he cried, thrusting forth a hand which I shook. “It’s like seeing an angel in hell! It’s been hell! Not a damned thing to do! Don’t tell me you couldn’t have hurried it up?”</p>
    <p>I slapped him affectionately on the back. Although Carrist was as ignorant and untaught as a dog, he was probably my best friend, and he was serving Earth well in his present role. “Cheer up,” I said. “It was arranged that I shouldn’t make it sooner than this. The boss didn’t want to arouse unnecessary suspicions, and let me tell you that goose down there in the bureau is certainly suspicious. Well, how do you like your new body? Did it keep its teeth clean?”</p>
    <p>“Hah!” he laughed. “I scrub myself daily, and have yet to glimpse the skin! Well, sit down, and tell me how it came off.”</p>
    <p>I sat. “Like a top,” I told him. “I’m afraid I was a little insistent on getting what I wanted, but I suppose it’s all right. Now, you. You got the machine and record in safely?”</p>
    <p>He nodded. “Everything fine. Everything except the food. This is the rottenest place I’ve ever transferred to. There’s not a hotel, not a decent place to sleep. Lord! I’ll be glad to get away. It’ll be soon?” he asked anxiously.</p>
    <p>“Not too soon,” I warned. “Look funny if I came and went in a single day. What if they gave me that infernal mind probing test as I went out?”</p>
    <p>Carrist grimaced. “We’ll hope against that. There’s no use postponing the thing though. Let’s get that record to work. Man, I’m jittery! These devils around here know I’m not one of them, and they hate me. You see it pouring out of their eyes. They’re mad clean through. They’re dreaming that some day they’ll get that empire of theirs back. It’s crazy! Why, the whole race won’t last another century. They’re dying faster than they can propagate.”</p>
    <p>I nodded. “Ganymedans, as far back as history goes, have always been the most warlike race.</p>
    <p>“It’s a pity, in a way. Martial glory is their ideal, but it’s too late. They haven’t a chance. That’s why my conscience doesn’t hurt me. To leave their secret with them is to throw it away. I can just glimpse, but can’t understand, a terrible weapon of destruction in this mind. Once I have completely mastered the details of its construction, I am certain the coming war can be averted.”</p>
    <p>“Then let’s get at it,” urged Carrist frantically. “Let’s hurry it up, and get out of here. They won’t suspect.”</p>
    <p>“No,” I decided. “Not for a while. Remember, I’m supposed to be a psychologist, and I’ve got to take notes.</p>
    <p>“Really, the race’s psychology is quite interesting. This mind, at least, has a mental fixation concerning empire, empire, in big capital letters. And I suppose if this is a sample all the others are the same. They live, walk, and dream empire. It’s bred into them from the time they are born. As soon as one of them can talk he is coached fully and completely in the secrets they are at such pains to keep.” Carrist shrugged impatiently. “To hell with their dreams and their fixations. I want to get back to Earth and I want my old reliable body that knows how its muscles are going to act. I’ve only the instincts, and I haven’t learned how to control these damned bodies yet. I tell you, Sid, this thing is weighing me down!”</p>
    <p>I laughed at him and yawned. I threw myself across the rude bed. “I’m going to get some sleep, Carrist. This fellow must have been to a night club for the past seven weeks. Good night.”</p>
    <p>Rather a futile term, considering that at this time of its short year there are no sights on Ganymede. I heard Carrist grumbling even as I went to sleep.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">G</span>ANYMEDE has an axial rotation that takes up about thirty hours, and a year of a little over seven days. She had her summers, autumns, springs and winters the same as earth, save that they recurred more frequently. But it was only when she was on Jupiter’s other side, and away from the sun, that she had nights, and those nights were so cold as to almost aproximate the temperature of outer space itself. And the days were but little warmer, since the heat received from the sun is negligible, and that from Jupiter more so, since that body has a temperature of minus two hundred degrees C. on the visible surface.</p>
    <p>We passed one of these short years on Ganymede. During this time Carrist became more and more impatient, and since he had already passed a month of Earth time here I couldn’t blame him. I insisted on staying, partly to make my visit seem authentic, and partly so I’d have enough time to write a convincing set of notes upon the racial psychology of these people.</p>
    <p>However, he was only too glad to show me around.</p>
    <p>Other races have always held a feeling of pity for the Ganymedans. Yet, in regard to material things, they are not to be pitied. They are the richest race in the solor system, and if they had not insisted on cherishing dreams which, in their hearts, they must have known as futile, and if the slowly coming death of their race had not been looming above them, they would have known complete happiness.</p>
    <p>Their government, as might be expected, was anarchistic. They were such a closely unified people, with identical ambitions and hopes, that no other form would have worked as well.</p>
    <p>Food was plentiful. They had vast fields of several different types of vegetables which grew rapidly, and needed not even the tiny amount of sunlight they received. There was a minimum of physical labor, since they possessed up-to-date, wholly automatic machinery.</p>
    <p>They possessed television sets, a public library fed from book and magazine marts on the other planets. They possessed two or three ships of ancient design, which maintained constant commerce with the rest of the solar system, freighting vast supplies of food exports to the markets, where, being considered delicacies by the inhabitants of other worlds, they commanded fabulous prices.</p>
    <p>As for religion, I doubt if they had one, unless it were one centering about their dreams of empire.</p>
    <p>Carrist willingly showed me about the city, and even walked with me to the vast agricultural fields. The city, in its prime, must have been huge. There were hundreds of old ruins, some of which were still standing, others of which had long since fallen to the parent earth. What with the strange twilight day through which a myriad stars could be seen burning fiercely, and the long, gloomy shadows cast over the city by the hordes of still standing edifices, oppression of the bluest nature gripped me on these tours.</p>
    <p>The eyes of the Ganymedans always followed us, but never a word would they speak. And more than once we had the feeling that a certain Ganymedan continually trailed us. Had I attached to this discovery its true interpretation, we would have been saved the later peril into which my consequent cautionlessness led us. But I thought the trailer had been placed on our track merely as a matter of form, in which it is best to watch closely the leasee of a body.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>T was on the seventh and last day of our stay that Carrist, apparently, flung himself into an attitude of deliberate sulkiness, and refused to accompany me then or evermore.</p>
    <p>“I’m sick of this place,” he cried. “That old lady who cooks for us hates us. She’s poisoning us! Did you ever taste such food?”</p>
    <p>I had to tell Carrist he was crazy. It was the silliest thing imaginable to suppose that that old lady would deliberately poison the bodies of her own fellow Ganymedans. And yet, the food undoubtedly did taste rotten to Carrist, and I told him why. He possessed only the instincts of a Ganymede, and consequently he couldn’t receive the sensation of taste through any mind but his own! I, on the other hand, tasted food, and used the mind of a Ganymedan in interpreting that taste. Had I used my own mind the food would have tasted rotten!</p>
    <p>So Carrist refused to accompany me on the seventh day, and I went out alone, walking slowly down a broad refuse littered avenue. As usual, I had the sensation of being followed, but paid no attention save to turn leisurely and verify my suspicions. True to them, I saw a dwarf dart behind a huge block of stone that had fallen some centuries ago.</p>
    <p>I continued on, and then suddenly noted that no Ganymedans, save the one behind me, appeared to be anywhere within the city.</p>
    <p>I was pondering the reason for this, when I suddenly approached a building which was one of the few still standing. And I heard a voice from inside that spoke in tones of infinite tenderness, in tones as golden and mellow as a ray of sunshine in an alfalfa field; and the beauty of that voice made me stop stock still, and set my soul to shivering as if it were cold.</p>
    <p>“Sons of Ganymede,” came the caressing tones, “a day comes when we shall be as we were, when once again our millions shall hold sway over that vast empire our forbears founded.</p>
    <p>“We shall be great, we shall be resplendent, and we shall grind under our heel those inferior races who now grind us under theirs. Oh, hated races, oh dogs who should, and shall, bow to us! Inferior races filled with the conceit of their fancied superiority! Sons of Ganymede,” the voice rang out, “never forget, and never fear! We shall be great!</p>
    <p>“You, sons of Ganymede, shall not know that power and glory,” the tones suddenly sobbed out, “you shall not know the infinite grandeur of our race to come! But you shall be remembered and worshiped as those courageous ones who bore them, and caused them to live!</p>
    <p>“Millions of years will pass,” the rich, deep voice flowed on, “but Ganymede shall regain that which is rightfully hers. Resplendent sons of the universe, we shall be great!</p>
    <p>“We are not lost,” it resumed in compassionate tones. “We are treading again the path our forbears trod! Sons of Ganymede, we are great, we are mighty. Never forget; never forget!”</p>
    <p>I found myself, at these words, dazed and enchanted, at the doorway of the hall from which had rung that hypnotizing voice. I stood there, not knowing how I had come there, looking down on an assemblage of Ganymedans who were sprawled out on rough stone floor, gazing with faces of pitable attention at the speaker who was—a woman. I could not have called her beautiful by Earthly standards, but my Ganymedan’s mind told me she was radiantly beautiful. She was ethereally devine, and she was the worshipped idol of every man on this world.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span> WAITED, quivering, for more words to flow from that perfectly shaped mouth, but none came. But those words she had spoken, an insidiously wondrous music, were forever engraved on my brain, and would remain engraved on my brain even when I was transferred back to my real body. Suddenly I came to myself, for I suppose that for a while I had been using the brain of the Ganymedan in whose body my ego was incarcerated. A dwarf stood before me, shutting off the view of those people enchanted with the promise of a greatness to come that ran in their blood like strong wine.</p>
    <p>He simply stood there, straight as an arrow, arms folded on his great chest, staring at me with vastly disdainful and dangerously glittering black eyes. He said no word, but I knew that I must go away.</p>
    <p>I gave him no objections, for I felt dazed and bewildered, and I wanted to get away. For a last time I heard the voice; the sweetest music, and the most drugging, that I had ever heard on any planet. I turned and made my way, stumbling and blind, from the insidious words that flowed into the minds of those Ganymedans like a river into a sea, and whispered softly to myself the theme of a sermon which, while it probably would not have been more appropriate, was much more truthful.</p>
    <p>“Dream on, oh sons of Ganymede,” was its text, “and dreaming—die!”</p>
    <p>I made my way back to the house, where I found Carrist sprawled out on the bed sleeping. Although I had been up but four hours, I threw myself down beside him.</p>
    <p>Almost asleep, I heard the merest noise outside the door. I jumped up, suddenly in a consuming rage, and flung the door open. A Ganymedan stood there. We gave stare for stare. Then, exhibiting no embarrassment whatsoever, he turned his back on me, and walked away. I went back to sleep.</p>
    <p>I awoke some hours later, and lay a while thinking. Then I dragged myself to my feet, and sat on the edge of the bed, a sudden, terrible shame flooding me, when I thought of my mission on this moon.</p>
    <p>I finally reached over and slapped Carrist on the back. He awoke, sputtering angrily.</p>
    <p>“That hurt!” he exclaimed.</p>
    <p>“Why should you worry?” I asked. “It’s not your body.”</p>
    <p>He gave me a scornful look, and I continued dully, “Set up your machine. I’m tired of my ignorant brain, and I’m sick to death of Ganymede.”</p>
    <p>I was not exactly sick to death of Ganymede, but it was the thought of those burning words I had heard a few hours ago that made me want to leave.</p>
    <p>Carrist’s face lit up joyously, and while he was rummaging a package out of the corner of the room, I set about completing my fake notes on racial psychology.</p>
    <p>When I finished them, Carrist had the machine set, and a metal sphere, which, with its convolutions within convolutions, looked like a naked brain. And in actuality, it was a brain, containing as it did my entire store of scientific knowledge.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span> LAY down on the bed, and Carrist fastened the headgear in place. He switched the machine on and a tiny pencil of visible vibration began to play on that artificial brain as it turned about in eccentric circles. I was even able to watch it, and saw those large grooves suddenly, as the transmitting vibration struck them, swell up as if there were some kind of pressure below them.</p>
    <p>Gradually, over half a day, I regained my temporarily lost learning. How nicely I felt that knowledge of mine pouring back into me, how visibly I felt on this brain I was using the very pressure of thought impulses forming grooves that corresponded to them. Slowly I saw those shadowy veils being drawn aside, one by one, each detail of that strange death weapon being exposed to exploration, until, in a blinding flash, I suddenly knew what the weapon would do, and I almost shouted aloud. And before the day was over I knew all the details of its construction.</p>
    <p>The sun was about two hours above the horizon when the “brain” was a smooth metal globe, milked dry. And I was my old, well informed self again.</p>
    <p>I tore off the head-gear, and executed a Scotch dance, forgetting that but a few hours before I had been sunk into a self-damning lethargy, caused by the very fact that I was stealing from these people a weapon the secret of which held all their dreams of happiness to come. But now that I knew the secret, I was mad with delight.</p>
    <p>Yes, I was mad. I forgot the incident of a day before, when I had surprised the eavesdropper, and I forgot that I had been trailed ever since I had received my temporary body.</p>
    <p>“Carrist, I’ve got it!” I exulted. “A weapon, and what a weapon! Picture a death ray, inimical to all life. Yes, I know we’ve got death rays, but their range is less than ten miles! The range of this one is infinity itself!”</p>
    <p>Had I been using my wits, I would have lowered my voice. I went on: “Its range is infinity, Carrist! It does not spread, it does not diffuse, even in an atmosphere! Furthermore, it propagates itself from cosmic radiation in its path!”</p>
    <p>Carrist had been throwing me warning looks by the dozen, but by that time it was too late. I was about to go on, recounting the features of this resistless weapon, when Carrist gave a muffled oath, and leapt for the door, flinging it wide.</p>
    <p>The breath congealed in my throat, and Carrist turned toward me, his face white as death. A gnome-like figure was running like mad away from the house, fast as its short legs would carry it.</p>
    <p>For one second I stood paralyzed, and then, throwing regrets aside, leaving my fake notes behind me, and cursing myself dreadfully, I leapt through the door, in the wake of the dwarf. The fate of two planets^—no, three—hung upon split seconds.</p>
    <p>Carrist panted after me.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>EAR lent wings to my feet, and I dashed up the avenue, following the flying Ganymedan toward the Bureau of Transmitted Egos! But I knew then that I would never catch him. I swore bitterly. I might have known that the suspicions</p>
    <p>I had sown in the mind of that old station master would result in something more concrete than suspicions.</p>
    <p>However, it was impossible to turn back, for it would be worse to do that. I raced my gnome’s body along the road, Carrist dropping behind, unused as he was to unfamiliar, unresponding tendons.</p>
    <p>My mental fury at myself was unspeakable when I saw the eavesdropper reach thf bureau and pop inside. I propelled myself with feet that acted like the exhaust of a rocket motor, but all the same, that lone Ganymedan reached the domed building a full two minutes before I did.</p>
    <p>Then it was too late. He had gasped out his message to the station master, and that person had acted with the speed of a striking snake. In this emergency, he knew exactly what to do.</p>
    <p>I entered the front entrance just as he disappeared into the next room, screaming like a demon from hell. I sprang across the room, panting, and sweat smeared. He had closed the door after him, but I sprang for it, little caring what havoc I wreaked on this body. The door splintered, and I fell into the room.</p>
    <p>For a moment I couldn’t move as I lay on the floor, and merely watched in dumb amazement what that Ganymedan was doing. He had slid the doors from the cases wherein reposed my and Carrist’s body, and, with a strength that was superhuman, and could not have come to him under natural circumstances, he had dragged them to the floor, where he pummeled and kicked them from their stupor, screaming and shrieking out a horrible diatribe of sounds. Carrist’s body jumped to its feet with an alacrity that sickened me. My own was more sluggish, but it knew quite well what to do!</p>
    <p>For a moment I couldn’t move. That was me, Sidney Hallmeyer, charging down on this body I was using. I jumped to my feet, quaking in terror. The monster bore down on me with saliva dripping from its jaws. It reached me, slapped me with an open hand and hurled me, bruised, into a corner.!</p>
    <p>Carrist came panting in behind me, his eyes wild. He saw the unnatural scene, but it raised no qualms in him. He felt not the slightest embarrassment at striking his own body.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>ROM where I lay I saw him take a flying tackle and drag his own body to the floor, with a thump that shook the room, and rattled the glass doors on the shelves. Then he jumped to his feet, and took one second out to dispatch the eavesdropper with a terrible uppercut. He had, at least, good control over the muscles used in that blow.</p>
    <p>He then flung himself headlong at his body again, bringing it to the floor twice before I collected my wits.</p>
    <p>I threw myself at my own dull-witted body, fighting with a ferociousness governed only by desire to hurt it as little as possible. It was my body; I wanted to use it again. I leapt at it, trying to bring it to the floor, where I could render it slightly unconscious by striking it in the chin. But it man-handled, me more than I harmed it.</p>
    <p>Carrist, of course, had the harder time of it, for within the body that he was fighting was a mind that was three-quarters Ganymedan. It understood what was wanted of it, and why such was wanted; while mine merely fought, with a terrible, slow-moving lust to destroy.</p>
    <p>But I suppose the odds were about the same for both Carrist and myself. Carrist’s body fought the body he was using with a caution which clearly showed that he did not wish to hurt it any more than necessary. A broken limb, a gouged eye, would mean discomfort for life. And Carrist used that same caution; his aim was clearly to render his body unconscious with a clean blow.</p>
    <p>However, my body was different. It was little more than a mindless <i>thing</i>; possessing a bit of consciousness which hardly told it that it was alive. It only wanted to tear and rend the body I was using limb from limb, and it did not realize that it would be its own body it was destroying.</p>
    <p>While it had no sense of fair play, I was deluged with it. No kicks in the groin here; no gouging of eyes; no tearing at the ears. I am afraid that both Carrist and myself were putting the welfare of Earth below* the welfare of our own bodies.</p>
    <p>I am conscious now that each time I struck the six-foot body I mentally winced, as if from induced pain. But what I was thinking of was how those arms and legs of mine would feel when I once more possessed my own familiar body.</p>
    <p>I suddenly found myself with two antagonists, my body and the old Ganymedan, shrilly screaming. Of the two, my body was the greater menace. I took time out and with a side sweep of my arm I hurled the old fellow into a corner, where he lay, bruised and lifeless.</p>
    <p>Then I darted at my huge opponent, and flung the full weight of my small body against it. We crashed backward, landing full tilt into one of the shelves. It came tumbling down on us, the crash of glass making a bedlam of noise. For a moment I lay stunned, while my body sluggishly arose, and looked stupidly about. Then, its eyes rested on me where I lay, and it staggered toward me, saliva dribbling from its opened lips. I staggered weakly to my feet, and once more the brute slapped me, and I fell again.</p>
    <p>Carrist, at that moment, was just realizing that flying tackles were enervating him as much as his body. His lips suddenly twisted desperately, and he made a long dive at his antagonist, landed against its chest head on. Carrist’s body fell like that of a brained ox. It lay there, writhing slightly, but unconscious. Carrist stared at it a moment, and then turned away, deathly ill. The sight was more than he could stand.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span> DREW myself to my feet, and my body fell on me, hugging me in its monstrous embrace. I felt the air squeezed from my chest, and saw darting pin points of light go streaking before my eyes. I felt immensely tired, and wondered apathetically when the thing would end.</p>
    <p>How I would have ended up I do not know had not Carrist ceased being sick and come to my rescue. He jumped on my body from behind, and dragged it to the floor, where it squirmed sluggishly for a moment, until I, gasping and hardly able to stand, went over, pushed the thing’s helmet back, and punched it lightly in the jaw.</p>
    <p>Carrist looked at me with a sick expression. He couldn’t say a word.</p>
    <p>I looked around. The old man was still lying there, like a wet rag. The eavesdropper was beginning to stir. Carrist went over, at my wave of the hand, and rendered him once more unconscious.</p>
    <p>I grabbed the legs of Carrist’s body, and motioned him to take the other end. Together we staggered across the central room and into the room which housed the vast ego transmitting machine. We left it there on the floor and ran lack for my body. The old Ganymedan was still lying there.</p>
    <p>We half dragged my body to the transmitting room, dropped it, and then put Carrist’s body into its seat. I strapped the harness around it and made connections.</p>
    <p>I fairly pushed Carrist into his place, and trussed him up tightly. I sprang over to the control board.</p>
    <p>At that moment we both heard a sound that sent the blood racing up and down our spines in chills. There was a brazen clanging, a horrible cacophony of sound that lasted twenty seconds before I could move.</p>
    <p>I dashed for the central room. At the desk was the station master, with his hammer in his hand, clanging at that bell with all his might, an intermittent beat that told me at once that he was signaling.</p>
    <p>He saw me, but that did not stop him. He kept ringing that bell, and screaming out loud until I reached him and hit him alongside the head. He fell, but the inhabitants of this strange world had undoubtedly already heard his terrible clamor and had read the message aright.</p>
    <p>My breath rattling in my throat I ran back into the room, and without a wasted movement pulled seven levers to neutral, and yelled out loud for Carrist to watch me. Fortunately, it was a much more complicated thing transferring personalities than placing them back into their proper bodies.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE machine burst into life. Through hazing eyes I watched Carrist’s real body, slowly saw the unconscious features take oh their original sturdy, strong look. A pointer before me moved slowly down a scale. It reached zero. The reversal had been completed!</p>
    <p>The body Carrist had been occupying was now its original self. It was tied tightly in the chair, and if black looks could have killed I would have died, and if screams had been pins I would have been a pin cushion.</p>
    <p>I went over, struck him once, and then loosened him. He fell to the floor and I let him lie there.</p>
    <p>I freed Carrist, his real body. He rose groggily, slumped against me. I realized with horror that he was still a bit unconscious from the very blow he had given himself!</p>
    <p>I shook him, shouted at him, slapped him. His eyes opened, bewildered, and then a look of astonishment spread over his features. He laughed softly, and then helped me put my body in its chair. I leapt into the other chair and beckoned Carrist to tie me tightly. Just as he completed this, I heard the massed roar of fifty voices coming from the ruined city, a screaming flow of diabolical rage that set me to shivering. The voices grew louder, even as I yelled instructions at Carrist. He threw down levers, and once more that peculiar droning filled my ears. All the while I yelled out instructions to Carrist. He later told me that for a short space of time both my body and that of the gnome had been shouting identical words at him. Later, just before the transmission was completed, it was my voice; and my voice alone that spoke.</p>
    <p>Through all this droning in my ears I heard the raging shouts of the Ganymedans, and heard them converging on the building, producing a sound like distant thunder, shaking it. And that pointer crept so agonizingly slowly down toward zero!</p>
    <p>It seemed like eternity, while I sat helpless in the chair, and Carrist feverishly followed instructions as I yelled them out at him. Suddenly I knew they were nearer, and inside the farther end of the building. The roar had suddenly amplified as they came through the doors.</p>
    <p>Carrist well knew the need for haste. He leapt over to me as the reversal was completed, and tore the harness and headset off me, making a gash in my right ear. However, I did not know that at the time.</p>
    <p>The door from the rear of the bureau burst open, and the gnomes, teeth bared, emitting unholy shrieks of demoniac rage, streaked after us as we ran for the outer door. We passed through, and five seconds later they came pouring after.</p>
    <p>I kicked off the heavy metal shoes I was wearing, and Carrist followed my example.</p>
    <p>The time wasted in doing that was well worth while. We out-distanced the howling pack, and finally, in a last jump, stood before the ship.</p>
    <p>Then the foremost ranks of them were on me, ten horribly mouthing creatures that proceeded to tear me limb from limb. I shouted aloud in terror, and kicked about with flying legs, sending them sprawling. They came on, in streams that were unending. I gasped, was conscious that my helmet was loose, had been loose ever since I had helped the station master place my body in its berth. I received a blow from behind. I felt hands grasp me under the ann pits. The whole universe exploded in a dazzling flash of brilliance.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span> WOKE hours later, with a terrible snarl. But I soon realized that we left danger behind. Carrist was sitting at the controls of my one-man rocket, and I discovered myself stuffed into a long compartment normally used for food.</p>
    <p>“We got away,” I said dully.</p>
    <p>He turned, and nodded. “Correct”</p>
    <p>“Nobody following?” I asked.</p>
    <p>“They were following, but they dropped behind.” He sighed. “Sid, I’m sorry for them. When we stole that secret from them, we stole their dream. And life is made of dreams, when you come to think about it.”</p>
    <p>He added apologetically, “I don’t suppose you’ve thought of that angle. But it’s the way I feel.”</p>
    <p>I stared at the back of his head. I hadn’t thought of that angle!</p>
    <p>“They won’t be able to do a thing about it,” Carrist resumed. “They’ll make an appeal to Earth, but it’ll be easy to ignore them.”</p>
    <p>Lying there, I bowed my head in shame, and a sense of guilt flooded me. Those Ganymedans couldn’t dream any more, they could just die.</p>
</body>

</html>