<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1>THE VIZIGRAPH</h1>

    <p class="fp"><b><span class="dropcaps">M</span>artians, Venusians, Saturnians, Neptunians and Jerseyites—you’re invited, all of you, to vizigraph in your messages. Kicks, kudos, bombs and bouquets—our expert operator can take it. All PS asks is that you make your vizigrams helpful and interesting.</b></p>

    <p class="space">Since so many <span class="smallcaps">Planet Story</span> fans have written in expressing a yen for a Paul, Morey or some other original drawing, we’ve decided to give the gang a chance. From now on—this issue included—the three most outstanding letters will rate a choice of illustrations. The winners will be able to pick their drawings in 1, 2, 3 order, first choice, of course, going to No. 1. You will be the judges. Your letters will be the index by which we will gauge the winners. General worthwhileness, intelligent amusement-value, and sound constructiveness are the points to keep in mind. Please be sure, when you write in, to point the finger once, twice and three times. Winners names will be announced in each following issue of <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>.</p>

    <h2>DUCK, THOMSON, DUCK!</h2>

    <p class="right"><i>S.S. Bylaye</i>,<br />Norfolk, Va.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><i>Editor,</i> <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories,</span></p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Sir:</p>
    <p>I read your magazine with the greatest of pleasure, and then came to the vizigraph. That really put a damper on all the pleasure I had received. Probably I am not bright, I don’t know. But two colleges and Oxford University should at least make a man half witted and I seem to like your stories, your first issue and your second, <i>they were swell</i>. I have been in practically every country in the world and every continent. Have searched for rubies in Siam and Burma, chased around the Gold Coast of Africa, hunted in all parts of the Congo. Prospected for gold and diamonds up the Amazon about four hundred miles beyond where any other white man had been, been on two expeditions to the Gobi and traveled pretty near all over the Far East, and I think that is about as much as a man can usually do in a lifetime, even if I am not an old man yet, and to hear someone run down the efforts of a man who is trying to give a little entertainment to his fellow men burns me up. Who does Mr. D. B. Thompson think he is? The only man who can judge a story, or perhaps he has a position that gives him power to say what other people shall or shall not read. How does he know what other people like? There are about five more men on this ship who have been reading science fiction since about 1926, and they all seem to think your first issue and your second were grand.</p>
    <p>This is my first letter to any magazine even though I have been reading science fiction since I was a kid, so don’t be too hard on it and print it so that Mr. Thompson and a few more like him can read it and know that <i>their</i> intellect is not the controlling one of the reading world. Yours in good faith and wishing only that you will make it a monthly.</p>
    <p>I am your ardent well wisher.</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Leon DeMarlo.</p>

    <h2>YOU GOTTA LOOK AT IT THIS WAY...</h2>

    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Mr. DeMarlo:</p>
    <p>I wouldn’t get too infuriated at Mr. Thompson for his somewhat critical letter in the last issue of <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>. He probably spoke in all good faith, intending to make us sit up and take notice in the good old sf way.</p>
    <p>It is pleasant though to hear from anyone as enthusiastic as you about the current issue. I certainly shall try making the magazine as good as you say it is.</p>
    <p>Very cordially yours,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">The Editor.</p>

    <div class="hr" />

    <h2>ACKERMAN UP AT BAT!</h2>

    <p class="right">236½ N. New Hampshire,</p>
    <p class="right">Hollywood, Calif.,</p>
    <p class="right">March 5, 1940.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Planeteer:</p>
    <p>NEW PLANET DISCOVERED! Found in the naborhood of Beverly &amp; Vermont (intersection where is located my nearest newsstand). Cover on your first issue was most colorful and I think the Spring issue’s was equally attractive. Drake is jake by me!</p>
    <p>Fwun thing, in No. 2 U’ve doubled the number of storys U had in the initial issue, introduced the welcome “Feature Flash,” and inaugurated the very vital vizagraf. Latter is unlike in letter columns.</p>
    <p>Morey is a rite step in the direction of desirable artists. Bok might not be a bad lad to add. &amp; one day some smart editor is going to get himself rewarded with a wreath of the rare radioflora from Venus for bringing back good old DOLD, he of the distinctive style. I didn’t say a thing....</p>
    <p>Ross Rocklynne’s “Tantalus Death” I thot tops. An outstanding story amidst all the output in the scienti-fantasy field for the month in which it apeard. Incidently, Rocky; with whom I had the pleasure of consorting at the time of the Stf Convention last summer; is one writer who really looks like a rocketor. The latter expression, I might explain, is used by the AMERICAN ROCKET SOC’Y, of which I am a member, as contrasted with the fictional form “rocketeer.”</p>
    <p>Was considerably intrested in Ray Cummings’ most recent rewrite of “The Girl in the Golden Atom.” The way one keeps running into these microcosmic storys sure shows it’s a small world!</p>
    <p>Principly interested in the Selwynarrative (“Revolt on the Earth-Star”) because of the robot’s being called capeks. The late Karel Capek created the former word in his classic “RUR”—“Rossum’s Universal Robots.”</p>
    <p>Well, may this <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> continue to swing ’round the sun &amp; show up on schedule each 3 mos.</p>
    <p>Sciencerely,</p>
    <p class="right"><span class="smallcaps">“4SJ” Ackerman</span>—<i>The Fantascience Field</i>.</p>

    <h2>ZWICK SPEAKS MIND...</h2>

    <p class="noindent"><i>Editor</i>, <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories:</span></p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Sir:</p>
    <p>Just finished reading the Spring issue of <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span>. I thought your first issue was on par with other Science Fiction Magazines (and I get <i>everyone</i> of them) but Vol. 2 far surpasses <i>any</i> of the newer S. F. Mags. I didn’t find one single story boring. And best of all—the stories were <i>complete</i>. I hate continued stories—in fact I prefer one long novel—or several short novelettes (unless of course, it happens to be a reprint such as Famous Fantastic features) or just short stories. It’s especially aggravating when the magazines are bi-monthly or quarterly issues.</p>
    <p>Now for criticism. Olon F. Wiggins made such an about face in the two letters published I’m wondering just how many readers feel as he does. One thing sure—if <i>I</i> ever <i>thought one thing</i>—I wouldn’t change my opinion for anyone. I’ve little use for these guys who “stand to judge” and then end up by soft soaping! When I find fault I don’t retract. <i>I</i> found the <i>first</i> issue on par with most <i>first</i> issues. Even Amazing wasn’t so “hot” ten years ago—so I’m leaving it to the Editor to choose what he shall publish in <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span>. If I happen to get a story I <i>don’t</i> care about I feel the others make up for one bad one and I get my 20 cents’ worth, regardless. Science Fiction Stories are bound to be “typed.” Did any of you readers ever stop and think that an average of fifty-five entirely <i>different</i> Stf. stories are published <i>every</i> month. That includes novels, novelettes and short stories and no two <i>exactly</i> alike. When you consider that angle of it you won’t wonder at Stf. being <i>“typed.”</i></p>
    <p>My <i>advice</i> is—keep your present policy—stories of <i>other worlds</i> and the <i>universe</i> and <i>future</i> centuries. <i>Don’t</i> use reprints—or serials.</p>
    <p>And Olon Wiggins had better stick to his own publishing—“The Science Fiction Fan” could do with a few improvements—and as Editor—<i>he</i> lets a few so-called “poor” articles get by.</p>
    <p>I don’t make a habit of airing my views—in fact this is only the <i>second</i> letter I’ve <i>ever</i> written to Stf. magazines. Any time <i>I</i> don’t approve of certain policies in a magazine I just don’t buy it. There isn’t a magazine on the market that can’t be improved, but that <i>doesnt</i> mean they aren’t <i>good</i> magazines. Editors are only human—so they make mistakes—even as you and I—but there’s no call to jump all over the Editor and try to make him feel like a fool. And its utterly <i>impossible</i> to <i>please</i> everyone. Now my choice in this issue is—“The Girl from Infinite Smallness” (and I hope to see another with these characters—soon) but my husband chooses “The Tantalus Death”—my daughter’s choice was “Goddess of the Moon”—my son-in-law, “Dictator of Time.” Not one of <i>us</i> agreed—so what can you expect with <i>thousands</i> of readers! <i>I’m</i> not a scientist so I <i>don’t</i> like too much data—yet I know a lot about radio construction and like <i>that</i> type of story—but how many housewives of today who read Stf. know <i>anything</i> about the principle of radio? I don’t know a thing about astronomy—yet I enjoy stories about the Moon, Venus, etc. So I say again—<i>Mr.</i> Wiggins you stick to editing S. T. F. and let the Editor of <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> do <i>his</i> own choosing—even “typed” stories.</p>
    <p>Best wishes and looking forward to the next issue of Planet.</p>
    <p>Sincerely,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Mrs. Ginger Zwick,</p>
    <p class="right"><i>Just-A-Mere</i> Farm,</p>
    <p class="right">Orchard Park, N. Y.</p>
    <p class="right">Box 284</p>

    <h2>“KISS ME AGAIN, KISS ME AGAIN...”</h2>
    <p class="noindent">From an old, sweet song</p>

    <p class="right">February 4, 1940</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>Today I made my purchase of your effort <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>.</p>
    <p>As you probably have been told by so many readers already, the science-fiction market is flooded. Bob Tucker of <i>Yearbook</i> reports that 18 stf. and weird mags have appeared—and some disappeared—during the past year, 1939.</p>
    <p>But all this is beside the point. There are a few mags that are prospering, and there are definite reasons that they are. Since, so far as I know you are new to stf. I will outline some of these facts.</p>
    <p>1. Appearance. Trimmed edges give it a classy look, and I understand Fiction House is a classy company. This should be added right away. Also better quality paper.</p>
    <p>2. Departments. There is one magazine that I know of that many fans buy for its departments alone! Especially have a large readers’ dept. It’s absolutely essential.</p>
    <p>3. Art. This should be attractive, especially covers. If I may say so your art is absolutely putrid! Morey has long ago degraded to a “hack.” And these new artists are as bad. The cut for the readers’ dept, is good, though. Try for Paul, Finlay, Wesso, or Schneenman.</p>
    <p>4. Stories. And these are not the most important part of the magazine. They are probably the last part of the magazine a reader reads! The stories you publish, to tell the truth, I don’t read half of them. The very names such as “Martian Terror,” etc., stink of hack, hack, hack. But you Ed. are the one to judge the stories.</p>
    <p>So in conclusion, I say lots of luck, and may <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> become one of the best.</p>
    <p>Sciencerly,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Tom Wright.</p>

    <h2>OLD-FASHIONED, THAT’S ALL</h2>

    <p class="right">March 15, 1940.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Mr. Wright:</p>
    <p>There’s nothing like being frank. If our art is putrid and our stories stink of hack, hack, hack, I appreciate your telling me so, but I must say it is slightly discouraging. What would be the use of adding a few more pages or trimming the pages of a book as lousy as that. It would simply be a waste of effort.</p>
    <p>It doesn’t seem to me that you and many other SF fans have a very wide point of view on this matter. I should think you would get pretty tired of having all magazines ilustrated by the same half-dozen artists. If no one comes along and develops new men you’re going to have a pretty dull and static field.</p>
    <p>As for stories, you say these are not the most important part of the book. That they are, in fact, probably the last thing a reader reads. Well, maybe I’m old-fashioned but I still think people buy magazines for the purpose of reading. I am forced to admit that I don’t feel the stories are anywhere nearly as good as they might be. They are the best we are able to get at present, but they’ll improve as we go along. Thanks anyway for the good wishes.</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">The Editor.</p>

    <h2>RIGHT IS WRIGHT</h2>

    <p class="right">March 19th, Tuesday.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>Please don’t get me wrong. I didn’t mean to be so discouraging as I may have seemed, and perhaps in this letter I can be more constructive. I know it is work editing a magazine, and especially in these times when there are so many stf. mags on the market, material, that is <i>good</i> material must be pretty scarce.</p>
    <p>Sure, we stf. fans do get tired of seeing all the magazines illustrated by a few artists, but not the good ones. Sure, it’s fine to find and develop new talent, but make sure first that you <i>have</i> talent. One of the artists you feature, Morey, most certainly is not <i>new</i>, and as far as I can see has not improved any in years, and he probably never will. One of your new artists, Fawcette, could probably turn out some good work if he were a little more careful, but the work I see by him is quickly dashed off stuff, and not even the old timers can get away with that. Take a couple artists like Paul or Finlay, get them as regular illustrators, so you can be sure of good drawings, then try your new discoveries and if they don’t stack up you still have Paul or Finlay for some good work in the issue. So much for the art work.</p>
    <p>Now for the stories. From what I’ve heard FICTION HOUSE is one of the better publishing companies, so you ought to be able to get better type fiction. Most editors that are new to stf., and some that aren’t so new think that readers of science fiction have a mental age of about 10, this is where they go wrong. They think that blood and thunder is all that fans want, a little of this is okay for a few readers that like this type, but not for the majority. All you have to do is go through the years and pick the best-liked stories, for example: <i>Twilight</i>, <i>Night</i>, <i>Forgetfulness</i> and other Stuart stories are always ranked high among the classics, and why? Not because they are blood and thunder, but because they are above the intellectual standard of average readers, not stf readers, but average readers understand. This type of story sets one thinking, sets the reader free from everyday life, and that’s why most people read science fiction, to get away from everyday life. So try a little of the better stuff that pulp editors usually reject.</p>
    <p>True, people do buy magazines for the purpose of reading, but I think you’ll find that they get as much pleasure out of reading departments, such as your VIZIGRAPH, etc., as they do from the stories. Don’t load your mag down with worthless departments, have a few good ones, new ideas and make them interesting. An Editor’s page would help, the intimate, chatty kind are best, also a larger readers dept. One thing I do like about you, you’re sincere in your efforts.</p>
    <p>I realize this letter is running to some great length, but there are a few more things I’d like to say. First: About the trimmed edges, although they are not necessary they do help a lot. They not only add to the appearance of the mag but also are easier to handle, and for collectors are far easier to keep. Also, I think they’d add to the selling quality. The other thing I’d like to mention is the cover and the titling, which is poor and cheapening. The artist you feature on the cover seems to be fairly good, but he picked a poor scene to attract readers.</p>
    <p>After all’s said and done your mag ain’t so bad, and I think you are capable of making it a real successful mag. Just listen to what the fans say (not meaning me) and try hard and I feel your mag will be up with the best of ’em soon.</p>
    <p>Well, best of luck, and don’t take me too seriously.</p>
    <p>Yours,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Tom Wright.</p>

    <div class="hr" />

    <h2>REPP O.K.</h2>

    <p class="right">Vineyard Haven,</p>
    <p class="right">March 30, 1940.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Gentlemen:</p>
    <p>It would seem that the new sf magazine with the distinctive name is really about to succeed; at least if you continue to improve as mightily as you have in two issues. Your first was not good, though not as bad as it might have been; but your second carried merit.</p>
    <p>Mr. Reynolds is not your best writer. No further comment. Bond is excellent, as usual. Isn’t this a new style for him? Cummings should retire if he can’t escape his atom-people (this was good, though). Repp is O.K. First interplanetary I ever read without an Earth-man in it. That is all in Repp’s favor. Selwyn? More, please. Rocklynne? We’d rather have Binder, sometimes. Phillips is out. King? Please, we don’t want any. Thus, my review of your authors in issue 2.</p>
    <p>Can you get Williamson, De Camp, Paul and Finlay? They’d be a great help. Also please don’t remain quarterly. Bi-monthly, at least.</p>
    <p>Until the next issue, then, my best wishes and all the rest You really have something in PS!</p>
    <p>Sincerely,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Allan Keniston, Jr.</p>

    <h2>AGAINST MASS PRODUCTION</h2>

    <p class="right smallcaps">Chester Payfer,</p>
    <p class="right">Route No. 3,</p>
    <p class="right">Yale, Michigan.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><i>Editor</i>, <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>:</p>
    <p>Have finished reading Vol. 1, No. 2 of your new mag. I liked “The Space Flame,” and “The Tantalus Death,” also “Revolt on Earth Star” about the best of the 8 yarns in the mag. Don’t care for love element in stf, it’s spoiled many a good yarn, at least stressing it too heavy has. I’ve always said love element don’t register either in Stf. or in weird type of literature.</p>
    <p>New ideas, more science and novel situations make Stf. the best fiction. Have been reading Stf. since 1926 and was for a long time member of the old “Science Correspondence Club” long since past and forgotten.</p>
    <p>Don’t make your mag a monthly. <i>Good</i> science fiction stories can’t be turned out the mass production way, a fellow has to wade through bushels of Chaff before he finds a pure grain of wheat. I think the old Stf. was the best and I suppose the reason I think that is because in 1926 Stf. was a new type of literature with a few exceptions and of course while it was new writers did not have to cudgel their brains so hard for new ideas, pretty near any idea was new because the field was so new and these ideas seemed so colossal to us because we had never even dreamed of such vast and tremendous flights of the imagination. Now new ideas are, I would say dam near impossible to find: Time Travel, Interplanetary travel, Life on strange planets, etc. That’s all old stuff and of course it has to be the foundation upon which 98% of all Stf. is built upon. So again I say it’s very seldom that a reader finds a 100% new idea yarn. To new readers any good time travel or space ship or strange creatures attacking earth is a big thing to them because they have never read of it before. No matter how thrilling or adventurous a Stf. story may be, if it doesn’t have a new idea, it is just another yarn to me.</p>
    <p>Friendly yours,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Chet.</p>

    <div class="hr" />

    <h2>AVERAGE = 67%</h2>

    <p class="right">464—84 Street</p>
    <p class="right">Brooklyn, N. Y.</p>
    <p class="right">February 7, 1940</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>I have just finished the second issue of Planet Stories. On the whole it was a hundred percent improvement over the first. The only fault I can find with the magazine is that it contains too many Earth menace type stories. Once in a while they’re okay but when they come in droves there extremely boring to say the least I am glad you have decided to include a reader’s department, as many a wish-washy magazine has been improved through this method. Of course I don’t mean “Planet Stories.”</p>
    <p>The Feature Flash is a pretty good idea although rather old, but it helps one enjoy a particular author’s stories more than ever. The art work by Morey and Edwards was fine but Fawcette could stand improvement. By the way how’s chances of me acquiring one of the original drawings of this issue. I would appreciate it very much as I am a fantasy collector and wish to acquire some good originals.</p>
    <p>In my opinion the ratings of the stories are as follows: 1. <i>Martian Terror</i>—80%, a fine study into the psychosis of a man, torn between duty and conscience, and for once praise Allah, the author admitted that races from alien beginnings could not mate and produce little cherubs.</p>
    <p>2. <i>Tantalus Death</i>—78%, a story showing that Earthmen are not haloed angels, big hearted and philanthropic but just plain mercenary, which is very true, also showing that the Martians are really not black-hearted rogues interested in robbing “wonderful”?? Terra.</p>
    <p>3. <i>Dictator of Time</i>—69%, an aged and decrepit plot given the eternal new twist. Not bad but I’ve read the same idea at least 40 times.</p>
    <p>4. <i>The Space Flame</i>—75%, very good handling of this plot pulled it out of the mediocre class. More stories of this type would improve any mag.</p>
    <p>5. <i>The Man Who Killed the Earth</i>—65%, swell plot, lousy handling, could have developed into best story of the month.</p>
    <p>6. <i>Revolt on the Earth Star</i>—70%, same old cry—moth-eaten plot, but this story was fairly interesting, especially the unusual ending.</p>
    <p>7. <i>The Girl From Infinite Smallness</i>-45%, won’t somebody please tell Cummings to forget the people in the atom. Ever since The Girl in the Golden Atom, we’ve had the same old stuff year after year. Even if it was a new plot, this story would be a flop.</p>
    <p>8. <i>Goddess of the Moon</i>—60%, this story barely deserves 60%, but I gave it the benefit of the doubt. <i>Please</i> in the future don’t haw Earth saved by a Paul Revere ride to the Moon in a rattletrap spaceship, and if I remember correctly Burroughs in his “Moon Maid” first thought of the renegades riding from the big bad villains etc., etc.</p>
    <p>The total of the above averages—67% which is not at all bad for a new magazine. I hope that you, the editor, will accept my criticisms in the spirit in which they are given, i. e. to make <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> one of the top mags of the field.</p>
    <p>Sincerely yours,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Dick Burns.</p>
</body>

</html>