<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1><i>PS’s FEATURE FLASH</i></h1>

    <p class="fp"><b><span class="dropcaps">F</span>lashing you the highlights on the men you’ve met in the preceding pages—those cosmic-minded writers and illustrators who help to nourish Planet Stories.</b></p>

    <h2>HAIL—</h2>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">“S</span>OME are born great some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon ’em.”... But Frederick Arnold Kummer, Jr., half-nelsoned to fame, partially because he was bored, and partially because this “free, white and twenty-seven” Baltimorean had a vigorous Southern dislike for alarm clocks.</p>
    <p>“Four years in the offices of an insurance company at fifteen per will drive the best of men to desperate things. Then, too, the greatest joy of my life is sleeping in the mornings, thumbing my nose at the clock as eight and nine roll by. Who but writers and night-watchmen can do as much?</p>
    <p>“To be sure, I work at least eight hours a day; but they’re eight hours of my own choosing, which means a lot. And if I feel like taking a day off, now and then, there’s no boss to pass on the authenticity of my grandmothers’ demise, or the alleged errand of mercy which requires my presence. The joys of being an author I “As to personal likes and fancies. Books, chess, horse-racing, table-tennis, good company... but why go on? Let it suffice to say that I have absolutely no desire to write the Great American Novel; that I will write anything for anybody, as long as I get paid for it; that I am the crassest of crass materialists. Geniuses can let their hair grow and bemoan the fate of American letters; my only desire is to become a skilled craftsman and turn out the sort of material that is currently in demand.</p>
    <p>“In conclusion, let me caution you against taking this, or any other biography of mine, seriously. They vary, according to the mood I’m in. I once wrote one when I had a hangover and it made Schopenhauer seem like Pollyanna. However, today is a very fine example of spring at its best, so I’m in most excellent spirits. Hence the above.</p>
    <p>“Here’s hoping you’ll like ‘Star Pirate.’”</p>

    <h2>—BUT NOT FAREWELL</h2>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">H</span>ARRY WALTON, author of “Asteroid H277—Plus,” is the living refutation of the old adage concerning rolling stones. By the time he was five years old, he had, with the help of a nomadic family, beaten a path between the Continent, England and New York. He couldn’t have stayed in the last place long because six years later finds this globe-trotting minor in Berlin, Vienna and Dresden—reading Buffalo Bill and Nick Carter in German. He acquired his education on the run, and it seems to have been a rather hectic acquisition. Concerning the last laps, Mr. Walton says:</p>
    <p>“Commuted between so many schools in New York and California that they finally lost my record and graduated me. Educational experiments continued at U.C.L.A. and San Diego State, where I specialized in fencing, journalism and short story writing. Won sixth place in a one-act play contest, hut have always suspected there were just six entries.”</p>
    <p>His fiction career was inspired by telling his young brother wild tales about the Katzenjammer Kids, which he considered slightly better than those published. From this fictional cocoon burst a butterfly in the shape of a harrowing story about a transatlantic tunnel. It fluttered pretty feebly for a time, then died unwept and unsung.</p>
    <p>But all that was long ago. Now Mr. Walton devotes his full time to story-writing and his artistic wife. When he feels the need of a spiritual pick-me-up, and just to keep his hand in, he drives back and forth to California. We suspect it’s just force of habit; but so long as he can send us stories like “Asteroid H277—Plus,” we don’t care.</p>

    <h2>IN THIS CORNER-</h2>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>N accordance with its policy, <i>Planet</i> presents two new artists: Don Lynch (The Forbidden Dream), and Ed Smalley (The Dark Swordsmen of Saturn). Lynch arrived in these pages via the famous Art Students’ League and the post-graduate art school known as Greenwich Village. Despite his occasional jaunts into the field of whimsy, he’s a serious artist, whose work was recently on display in a well-known 57th Street gallery. Smalley started off as a designer of airplanes, then changed over to commercial work and advertisements. Perhaps this last phase accounts for the extraordinarily forceful style that characterizes his present work. In the next issue of PS, Smalley will have a chance to draw space-ships. It should be interesting to see what an artist with practical airplane design knowledge can do on ships of the future.</p>

    <h2>FAN MAG</h2>

    <p class="fp">For the benefit of you PS readers who might be interested in obtaining copies of some of the current science fiction fan publications, we append the following list:</p>
    <p class="space revindent">GOLDEN ATOM. Published monthly by Kodak City Publications, Rochester, N. Y. Larry B. Farsaci, Editor. 10¢ per copy.</p>
    <p class="revindent">STARDUST. Science fiction-fact magazine, published bi-monthly by W. Lawrence Handing, 2b09 Argyle St., Chicago, Illinois. 20¢ per copy.</p>
    <p class="revindent">VOICE OF THE IMAGI-NATION. Published quarterly by Ackerman and Morojo. at Box 6475 Metropolitan Station, Los Angeles. 10¢ per copy.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE 1939 YEARBOOK OF SCIENCE, WEIRD AND FANTASY FICTION. Published annually by Vulcan Publications, Box 260, Bloomington, 111. Bob Tucker, Editor.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE COMET—Edited by Tom Wright, R.F.D. #1, Box 129, Martinez, California.</p>
</body>

</html>