<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body>
    <div id="story">
        <h1>ATOM OF DEATH</h1>
        <h2><i>By Ross Rocklynne</i></h2>
        <h3>The Earthling killer planned too well! An atom was to have been his alibi... that same atom was his judge and executioner.</h3>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>OWLER BARRY curled his lips into a thin smile of satisfaction as he pushed aside the oily, dripping vines and branches of the Venusian jungle and swamp and stepped forth into the clearing where the drug gatherers’ shack, a cubical, airtight structure, stood. This was as he had planned. They—Pete Slater and Luke Browne their name* had been entered in the Venus Registry of 2061— should help him to establish his alibi, unwittingly; if, indeed, he should ever have to establish it.</p>
        <p>He approached boldly, and rang the buzzer. After a couple of seconds, a bearded face placed itself against the thick circular window, peered out at him.</p>
        <p>Barry made motions of friendliness, and smiled his most disarming smile.</p>
        <p>The man waved back. He grinned in response. Seconds later he operated the controls that slid open the outer door of the small airlock, closed it as Barry stepped through, then opened the inner.</p>
        <p>Barry stepped into the single, untidy room, grinning his thanks. The two men, Slater and Browne, smiled back at him. Barry quickly unlatched his gloves, unbuckled his helmet.</p>
        <p>“Whew! Sure is good to breathe real air again!” He stuck out his hand, shook those of the two drug gatherers. “Name’s Harrington—Jim Harrington. I’m on my way up to the Little White Water Country, getting a clay sample for my company, Venusian Metals. We think there might be emeralds up that way.”</p>
        <p>“Pleased to meetcha,” said the taller of the two, looking at Barry from under beetling brows. “Name’s Pete Slater. This here is my pardner, Luke Browne. Get your pressure suit off, Harrington, we was just setting down to grub.”</p>
        <p>“Thanks, I will,” said Barry, in a tone of relief. “I’ve been on the trail twelve and a half hours. I left my space-ship on the edge of the plains outside the jungle, forty-three odd miles back. That was about the nearest place to here I could manage to land.”</p>
        <p>Browne, a short man with broad shoulders and lines of humor around his eyes, said, “Guess you made it just in time. Another half hour and your ozone tank would have given out.” Ozone tanks were used instead of oxygen because, under equal conditions of pressure and temperature, more ozone, made of a heavier molecule, could be crowded into a tank than could oxygen. “If you’re going up to the Little White Water country, we can fit you up with a full tank, in exchange for the empty one and three eighty-five.”</p>
        <p>Barry grinned. “That was my idea from the first. I looked you fellows up in the Registry. Boys, this grub looks almighty good!”</p>
        <p>During the meal, while Barry talked with the easy abandon that made these men respect and like him at once, he studied them carefully. Rough, bluff, middle-aged men who had been gathering <i>lantis</i>-leaves for years; bringing their food and supplies by boat down a tortuous system of rivers and lakes from South Venus City; taking their produce out in similar fashion; living simply, roughly, more than glad to lend a hand to anyone who might stop by. They’d do, all right, Barry thought in gloating satisfaction. They’d never suspect Jim Harrington of being anything else than what he was. Even if they personally knew Anson Harkness, the man who had turned state’s evidence on Fowler Barry eight long years ago, and doubtless they did, they’d never suspect that his disappearance was tied up in any way with the man who sat here, smoking a cigar and swapping tall yarns.</p>
        <p>An hour later he was finishing his cigar and yawning.</p>
        <p>“If you fellows can put me up for a few hours—?”</p>
        <p>Luke Browne said with alacrity, “Hell, yes, brother. You’ll be out all day tomorrow if you want to get to Little White Water and back here—though you better listen to an old-timer like me. I been up that way, and there ain’t any emeralds. I did hear tell of some fellows a couple years ago finding a pocket of beryls, but they was wuthless and shot through with faults. But if you’re going anyway, you better take two tanks of ozone. You might find yourself breathing CO<sub>2</sub> before you get back.”</p>
        <p>He pulled a compact folding bed out of the wall.</p>
        <p>“No, thanks,” said Barry. “A twenty pound tank is enough to carry around. I’ll be traveling kinda fast, and all I’ll be doing is to grab a fistful of mud, then I’ll be starting back here again. Should make it on one tank.”</p>
        <p>“Yeah, but you’ll have to pick ’em up and put ’em down for sure.” Browne indicated the bed, while Slater started pulling a partition out that bisected the room. “There y’are, Harrington; hit the cork anytime you feel like it.”</p>
        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>N the morning—by chronometer, since Venus rotated slowly—the friendly drug-gatherers screwed an ozone tank into the back of his pressure suit, attached the nozzle to the catalyst chamber, where the ozone was broken down into oxygen. The pressure control gage automatically fixed itself at room pressure.</p>

        <p>“Thirteen point five suit?” asked Browne. “Some people can’t stand anything less than fifteen pounds to the square inch. Me and Pete stick to thirteen point five.”</p>
        <p>“I leave the control gage roll where she wants to,” answered Barry absently. Hef buckled on his gloves, and then stuck out a hand to each of the two men. “Be seeing you, then, in thirteen hours at the most. More probably twelve.” He grinned again, took his leave. In a few minutes, he was striding along the Little White Water trail, with the two men watching him as he disappeared into the jungle.</p>
        <p>His thin lips twisted in a smile of contempt as soon as he was out of sight. The old fogies! They had been marooned in the jungle so long that they had entirely forgotten how to read a man’s character except at face value. Well, that was all to the good and part of Barry’s plan. He sought for a break in the jungle and plunged through at right angles to the Little White Water trail. He traveled some three hundred yards, and picked up his actual route, at the end of which lay the cabin of Anson Harkness and the revenge that Fowler Barry had looked forward to for eight long years of imprisonment in a Terrestrial penitentiary.</p>
        <p>It took him four hours of laborious travel through the slushy swamplands and eternal twilight of Venus, guiding himself by means of a Registered Veneographical Map, to reach Anson Harkness’ cabin. As was the case with the cabin of Slater and Browne, this cabin was situated in a small clearing, and perched on a knoll. It was running with water from the light drizzle that had started. Barry struggled over the soggy ground toward the cabin, his bearded face wreathed in a cruel, anticipatory smile. The port-like windows were lit up from within.</p>
        <p>He stepped quietly to the window nearest him. He cautiously looked in. His breath hissed through his teeth. His hate flamed in his eyes. Anson Harkness, a tall, thin, gangling sort of man with a sensitive, almost gentle face, was bending over an earthenware crock, stirring a mess of <i>lantis</i>-leaves with a wooden spoon. Now and again, as Barry exultantly watched, he moved to a small retort suspended over a Bunsen burner, closely regarding the pale, sirupy fluid that emerged, drop by slow drop.</p>
        <p>“Here’s where you get yours,” Barry whispered. His thin lips drew dack wolf-like; his close-set eyes gleamed.</p>
        <p>He stepped to the door, pressed his gloved finger against the buzzer. After a few seconds, Anson Harkness looked out at him.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>OWLER BARRY waved his hand and grinned. Harkness smiled faintly, his lips framing the words, “Just a minute.”</p>
        <p>Seconds later, the tiny airlock opened; and less than a minute after that, Barry stepped into the cabin. He nodded at Harkness as he went about the job of closing the inner door, and then turned his back to him. Quickly, he unbuckled his gloves, unlatched his helmet. He felt the sudden slight change of pressure in the air. He let his helmet fall back on his shoulders. He still had his back to Harkness, grinning wolfishly to himself. He was going to enjoy the horror and consternation that was suddenly going to sweep across Harkness’ face.</p>
        <p>Harkness turned away from the door.</p>
        <p>He was evidently waiting for Barry to turn around. He said nervously, “Bad traveling, alone, eh? You going far?”</p>
        <p>Barry swung around, his eyes gloating. “No.” he whispered in a low, husky monotone, “but <i>you</i> are!”</p>
        <p>Harkness stared, his eyes dilating. Barry could feel him searching his face, prying behind the beard that hid his features. Then—what Barry was waiting for—the consternation and fright came.</p>
        <p>Harkness leaped back, pinning himself against the wall, his sensitive face going whiter than it normally was under Venus’ cloud blanket.</p>
        <p>“You!” he whispered hoarsely He stared at the blunt instrument in Barry’s hand. “No!” he suddenly screamed, his face distorted as he came to realize that his death was only a matter of moments. “You can’t, Barry! You can’t! Not after I’ve gone straight, not just when I’m beginning to get ahead. Don’t! Barry t”</p>
        <p>“Stop babbling,” Barry whispered gloatingly, falling into a crouch. Slowly he brought the automatic up, his eyes bright with his intent, dwelling with pleasure on the utter horror of Anson Harkness. “For you,” he said softly; “for turning state’s evidence, you double-crosser!”</p>
        <p>“No!” Harkness thrust up a hand as if to ward off the death that was coming. He never finished his horrified protest. A thin, spiteful crack cut through the silence; smoke curled upward from the automatic. Anson Harkness slumped and died, his protest still written on his face.</p>
        <p>Barry stood over him, still reveling in the terrible fear that Harkness’ eyes showed. Then he stuck his automatic into its holster, fastened his gloves and helmet down again, and threw himself into a chair.</p>
        <p>The main thing to remember now was that Slater and Browne expected him to go to Little White Water, which distance was a little les^ than twice as far as where he actually had gone. Traveling at a steady pace, it would take a minumum of twelve hours to go there and back, his tank supplying him for almost exactly that length of time. Therefore, Barry had some six hours to dawdle away; or he could simply wait until his tank was three-quarters empty, and then start back to the drug gatherers’ cabin, arriving by way of the Little White Water trail, with his ozone tank almost empty.</p>
        <p>Barry laughed to himself in high glee. The fools wouldn’t ever suspect, or have reason to suspect him. After all, he didn’t <i>have</i> to show them a sample of the clay he had supposedly picked up, did he? No. He settled himself back in the chair, sending an occasional look at the contents gage of his ozone tank while he interested himself in a year-old picture magazine.</p>
        <p>He paid no attention to time; after all, he thought, the contents gage of his tank was his time piece.</p>
        <p>He was looking through his fourth magazine when the time came to leave. He carefully placed the magazines back where they came from. He dressed the dead body of Anson Harkness in a pressure suit, picked the body up, took one look around to make sure everything was all right, and then stepped into the tiny airlock, closed the inner door, left the outer open, as was customary.</p>
        <p>He jogged swiftly along through the eternal dusk, Anson Harkness riding on his shoulder. He came to a bog, and threw the body far out. He turned at once, and rapidly made off toward the drug-gatherers’ cabin. Things had so far worked out to his intense satisfaction, and he was perfectly sure that he had made no slip-up at all.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span> LITTLE less than three hours later, he cut across through the jungle to the Little White Water trail, and continued on from there, filled with gleeful confidence. His tank was almost empty, therefore a little more than twelve hours had passed. He’d reach the cabin in about fifteen minutes now.</p>
        <p>His breath suddenly soughed from his lungs. What in hell was that? Slater and Browne, hurrying toward him along the trail! He could just about see their faces; and their faces were worried, alarmed. But that passed quickly when they saw him.</p>
        <p>They hurried up, their smiles wide with relief.</p>
        <p>Slater grabbed his hand, and panted, “Whew! We sure were worried about you! What kept you, man? We’ve been waiting for the last two hours!”</p>
        <p>“What kept me?” said Barry blankly. “Why, nothing kept me.” He was beginning to feel alarmed.</p>
        <p>Browne looked at him curiously. He put his hands on hips, and screwed his face into a puzzled frown. “That’s funny. D’you know you’ve been gone fourteen and a half hours? And—hell! You’ve still got ozone in your tank yet, too!”</p>
        <p>Slater looked at the contents gage too. “That <i>is</i> funny!” he exclaimed. “For a trip to the Little White Water country and back, thireen hours is just about the lim—”</p>
        <p>Barry clenched his hands and raced his mind. No matter where he’d slipped up, he had to collect himself!</p>
        <p>He forced a wide grin to his face. “Say, let’s don’t stand here gabbing.” He slipped his arms between those of Slater and Browne and urged them along in comradely fashion. “All I know is, I’ve been traveling, and I’m damned glad to get back! I didn’t know I was gone this long. I was just timing myself by(the contents gage on my tank. It looked to me like I was in plenty of time. And say, I’m a little runt of a fellow; I don’t use up as much oxygen as you fellows would.”</p>
        <p>“W-well,” Slater said uncertainly, “maybe that’s the reason. Still, it don’t seem—” He broke off. “I guess the main thing is, you got back. But I can remember lots of times I’ve wished a tank would last me fifteen hours the way it did you. Whenever I go on a long trip I have to carry two of the tanks, and forty pounds ain’t no fun. Oh hell! C’mon—grub’s been stewing for an hour.”</p>
        <p>Barry grinned approval. He turned his head toward Browne. Browne was looking at Barry’s ozone tank with a funny expression. Barry felt a quick thrill of alarm, but that passed when Browne grinned at him disarmingly.</p>
        <p>“You musta stopped breathing for a while,” he chuckled, and quickened his pace with Barry and Slater toward the cabin.</p>
        <p>The evening was a repetition of the other. They ate, smoked cigars, swopped yarns, and laughed until whatever fears Barry had were utterly dispelled. He couldn’t understand exactly why his ozone had lasted him fifteen hours, but it didn’t appear to be troubling the two grizzled drug-gatherer’s, so Barry resolved that it wouldn’t bother him either. He went to bed and prepared for an untroubled sleep. Lord knows the tanger of hate for Anson Harkness in his mind had been keeping him awake for eight long years! He had done the sensible tiling when he had removed it!</p>
        <p>But none the less, though he did go to sleep, it was a troubled slumber. There were uneasy thoughts in the back of his mind. Somehow he wished that the two drug-gatherers hadn’t drawn that partition across this section of the room—a soundproof partition at that. But they had explained they weren’t ready for bed yet, so it must be all right.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">B</span>ROWNE, a short man with extremely broad shoulders, said nothing to Slater of his suspicions until a half hour had passed.</p>
        <p>Then he got up, and touched Slater on the shoulder. He made a motion to him. The mystified drug-gatherer followed him to a far corner of the room.</p>
        <p>“What ails you?”</p>
        <p>Browne put a finger to his lips. “Softer,” he advised, lowly. His canny eyes sharpened. He jerked a thumb toward the partitioned off room where Fowler Barry was sleeping. “He didn’t go to Little White Water,” he whispered, his eyes smoldering.</p>
        <p>Slater started. “What?” His voice was alarmed. His eyes widened. He trusted his partner, knew him for a man of good sense. He said slowly, “Maybe I follow your thought. Maybe I don’t. Go ahead.”</p>
        <p>Browne made a fierce gesture. “He couldn’t have gone to White Water and stayed away fifteen hours with only one tank of ozone. He stayed away fifteen hours, and actually came back with some still in his tank. So he went somewhere else, and told us he was going to Little White Water in order to throw us off the trail. He went a <i>shorter</i> distance, and then laid around and dawdled away the remaining time, timing himself by his contents gage. But he forgot that a man uses more oxygen when he’s walking than when lie’s laying around. So he stayed away longer than he should have. That’s right, isn’t it?”</p>
        <p>“Go on.” Slater’s eyes showed his interest.</p>
        <p>“Answer me this: When a man puts a pressure suit on and attaches a tank, what pressure does the gage read?”</p>
        <p>“Huh?” said Slater. “You know that—the same pressure that surrounded him before he put the suit on. The gage adjusts itself to give you the same pressure in the suit as that you’ve been used to.”</p>
        <p>“Sure. For instance, if you came into this cabin from outside with a pressure of fifteen pounds inside your suit, and opened your helmet only for a couple seconds, the pressure gage would change to read thirteen point five—the pressure in the cabin. Well, Harrington’s gage reads thirteen point one one.”</p>
        <p>Slater’s breath released with an explosive sound. “The pressure Harkness has been using! I see what you mean!” He turned his whole body, and stared at the partition behind which Barry was sleeping. He jerked his head toward Browne and started toward the partition. Brown grasped his arm.</p>
        <p>“No,” he whispered fiercely. He quieted, said soberly, “We can’t be sure of anything. That reading <i>may</i> be a hell of a far-fetched coincidence, but coincidence just the same. Understand? I’m going to beat it over and see if Harkness is all right. If he isn’t and if anything at all’s happened to him, I’ll try to be back here before Harrington gets up and leaves. We’ll know what to do with him if our suspicions are right.”</p>
        <p>He turned, rummaged in a locker, brought out a pressure suit. Slater stared at him for a minute, then nodded his head quickly. Five minutes later, Browne was equipped and ready to leave.</p>
        <p>“I’ll hurry it up,” he promised. “Seven hours, no more; and maybe less. In the meantime, if he gets up ahead of time, try to keep him here. But don’t accuse him of anything. He might be innocent. There’s just a vague chance that he might actually have gone to White Water.”</p>
        <p>“Okay.”</p>
        <p>Five minutes later, Slater was watching his partner disappear hurriedly into the jungle. He went back and sat down, nervously picking at his finger-nails. If Harrington got up ahead of time, and decided to leave before Browne got back, what could he do except let him go? That was all he could do. But what if he—the thought was fantastic—what if he had <i>murdered</i> Harkness, and all the talk about White Water was just an alibi? Slater’s teeth came together with a click. If that was true, Barry would have to pay for his crime—someway, somehow. But whatever that was Slater didn’t have the least idea.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE long hours wore away. Slater had a case of nerves. Twice he thought he heard sounds of Fowler Barry getting out of bed, then knew it was just the rain.</p>
        <p>Six hours had passed when the moment he dreaded to face came. The man who might or might not be guilty of some hideous crime pushed back the partition, blinking in the sudden light.</p>
        <p>“Time to get up,” he remarked, smiling in friendly fashion.</p>
        <p>Slater answered mechanically, wondering if it was just his imagination which made him think that Harrington was looking at him with a trace of wariness showing behind his eyes. Whether it was or wasn’t, he had to keep Harrington here somehow, until they could be sure.</p>
        <p>“Breakfast?” he asked, rising without too much alacrity. “What’ll it be?”</p>
        <p>Barry was swiftly dressing. He looked up. He made a wry face. “Nothing, this morning. Bad stomach. Thanks, anyway. Guess I’ll be shoving off. I’ll need a new tank I guess,” he added carelessly. He started to lace his rawhide boots, his slim fingers moving rapidly.</p>
        <p>“Sure. Stick around though—wait until Browne gets back.”</p>
        <p>Barry’s head snapped up, his eyes narrowing slightly. “Where’d Browne go?” He added casually, “I’d hate to go off without seeing him.”</p>
        <p>“Sure,” said Slater, wandering around the room with his hands in his pockets. “That’s the reason I thought it might be nice for you to stick around. He’s out gathering <i>lantis</i>. We take shifts—mean job.”</p>
        <p>“Um-huh.” Barry buttoned his shirt, put his coat on. He sat down with a sigh, and Slater heaved an inward sigh of relief. But still, perhaps Harrington was just pretending that he wasn’t in a hurry to be off. He watched the man while he lit a cigar, puffed leisurely; then put the cigar out with a sigh of regret.</p>
        <p>“Got to be off,” he said apologetically, getting to his feet. He got his pressure suit off the wall, and while Slater watched with a sinking feeling, clambered into it. He said carelessly over his shoulder.</p>
        <p>“Let’s have that ozone tank, Pete.”</p>
        <p>Slater bit his lip and gave up. He wheeled, and without more ado crossed the room to a row of tanks suspended from a rack. He paused in mid-step, and his eyes suddenly flashed. Then he went ahead, got a tank down from the rack, and returned with it. He screwed it into place on Barry’s suit after taking the empty one off. He attached the nozzle to the catalyst chamber, released the valve and saw that Barry was watching the pressure gage swing over to thirteen point five. His eyes switched upward to the contents gage, where the needle pointed to “Full.”</p>
        <p>“Guess that fixes you up,” Slater said, watching Barry buckle down his helmet. “Too bad you have to go, but here’s wishing you luck anyway.”</p>
        <p>He stuck out his hand. Barry took it, smiling in man to man fashion; and then, with Slater’s help at the airlock, took his leave.</p>
        <p>Slater watched him from the port-like window as he pushed aside the tangled creepers and branches that led him into the jungle.</p>
        <p>Then he turned back to his chair, whistling under his breath.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>T couldn’t have been more than forty-five minutes later that Luke Browne came hurriedly out of swampland and jungle from a direction opposite to that in which Barry had left.</p>
        <p>Slater let him into the house.</p>
        <p>Even before he took off his helmet, Browne whispered, savagely, “He did it! He killed poor Harkness! Where is he?” His eyes roved around.</p>
        <p>Slater felt a cold chill running up his spine. He grabbed Browne’s arm.</p>
        <p>“You’re sure?” he said, tensely.</p>
        <p>“Sure I’m sure!” Browne gasped. There were tears in his eyes. When he looked at Slater there was a deadly rage there too. “Don’t tell me,” he hissed, “that you let him go! He murdered Harkness. He shot him. I found him in the swamp—poor Harkness, that wouldn’t hurt a fly! If you tell me you let him go,” he babbled.</p>
        <p>“I did,” said Slater.</p>
        <p>Browne turned, snarling. “Then I’m going after him,” he gritted. “Im going to—”</p>
        <p>Slater said sharply, “Shut up. You’re not going to do anything.” He smiled, a slow, terrible smile. “Sit down, Luke. Get your suit off, too. Jim Harrington, if that’s really his name, is already taken care of. Understand?”</p>
        <p>“You’re crazy! He’s already gone, hasn’t he? You didn’t have sense enough to keep him here, did you?”</p>
        <p>“Shut up!” Slater said sharply. He held Browne’s wet eyes with his own hard ones.</p>
        <p>“Remember that Harrington’s tank was almost empty when he got here from his ship? He had just enough ozone to take him that far. Well, he needed the same amount of ozone to get back. Do you know why we use ozone and a catalyst to break the ozone down into oxygen that we can breathe, instead of using plain oxygen?”</p>
        <p>“Don’t remember the theory of it,” Browne said sulkily.</p>
        <p>“Avogadro’s Hypothesis. Equal volumes of all gases under the same conditions of pressure and temperature contain the same number of molecules. That applies no matter how big the molecules are.</p>
        <p>“So that’s the reason we use ozone. Ozone is an allotropic form of oxygen. A catalyst can break it down into oxygen. And since the ozone molecule is one third larger than the oxygen molecule, we can get more oxygen into a tank—actually—by filling it with ozone rather than oxygen.”</p>
        <p>His grim eyes bored into Browne’s.</p>
        <p>“So,” he said softly, “I took one of our old stock of oxygen tanks, and gave it to Harrington. But he thinks it’s ozone.”</p>
        <p>The two of them looked at each other silently for a full thirty seconds. A tight grim smile suddenly etched itself on Browne’s bearded face. “Right,” he said, in a whisper. “And we could have pushed ourselves and caught up with him—if he was innocent.”</p>
        <p>As by mutual accord, they turned to a window, looked out into the swamp, where Fowler Barry was even then hurrying back to his ship.</p>
        <p>Each knew what the other was thinking. After eight hours of travel, and four more to go, Harrington would suddenly discover that his tank was almost empty. Only two thirds of the journey completed, because an oxygen molecule is only two thirds as big as one of ozone. Panic—wild fear-utter madness as slow suffocation started.</p>
        <p>Yes, Fowler Barry, alias Jim Harrington, would pay for the murder of Anson Harkness.</p>
    </div>
</body>

</html>