<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="story">
    <h1>ONE THOUSAND MILES BELOW</h1>
    <h2>By EANDO BINDER</h2>

    <p class="blurb">Humanity was doomed. Hour by hour the Martian horror was blasting Mankind from the earth. Then up from the depths came a strange, pale army, marching to battle the sky-born Ray Armada.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps3">S</span>ERGEANT EVAN PAIGE’S gray, brooding eyes stared reflectively at the paper in his hand, dated three days before, June 7, 1941. Under the official seal of Washington it read:</p>

    <p class="space">“<span class="smallcaps">Emergency Draft</span>. All men able to bear arms, ages 14 to 55, in defense of earth against the invaders from mars. your country and your world need you. <span class="smallcaps">Report at the nearest recruiting office immediately</span>.”</p>

    <p class="space">“We’d better go, Sarge,” said “Sparky” Donovan, small, wiry, his voice tense. “Before a draft commission comes for us. We never sidestepped a fight yet.”</p>
    <p>He walked to the window with a limp, and looked out into the night, shuddering. “Lord! Martians taking over Earth!”</p>
    <p>Evan Paige tossed the well-thumbed paper on his workbench, and ran his strong hands through uncombed hair in nervous indecision.</p>
    <p>“We should go. Yet what about Dr. Aronson?”</p>
    <p>Sparky tossed his hands in the air eloquently.</p>
    <p>Paige turned back to his radio. Its banks of power-tubes and its special airial outside were designed to send a beam underground. An electrical engineer, Paige had developed the set himself, with Sparky Donovan’s help, to keep in touch with Aronson’s exploring party. It had gone in a different direction from any other exploring party—down.</p>
    <p>“No return signal from him for three months,” Sparky said gloomily. “What do you expect? Somewhere under Earth’s crust, his number rang up.”</p>
    <p>“But we’re not sure,” Paige said. His voice became musing. “Sparky, this is about the strangest situation facing us ever imagined. For the first time in history, an unsuspected underworld is being discovered. And for the first time in history, invasion has come from space. Two of the most astounding events in human chronicles happening at the same timel It’s fantastic—as only truth can be. If we leave the radio now, we might be cutting off Aronson’s last chance to tell the world—”</p>
    <p>“Tell <i>what</i> world?” shrugged Sparky. “The Martians?”</p>
    <p>“We’ll try once more—”</p>
    <p>Hopelessly, Paige sent his beam down, down. The last contact with Aronson had broken off at sixty miles below Earth’s surface—abruptly. A cry of alarm, clipped off in the middle. Had Aronson and his three men met death, in that unknown depth? Still, perhaps only their portable radio-set had been damaged. On that slim hope, Paige had kept a hopeless vigil, hunched over the radio at all hours, signaling below.</p>
    <p>Three months of nerve-wracking suspense. And in the meantime, the Martians had thundered down on Earth, like a bolt out of the blue...</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE stiffened, as a faint voice trickled from his speaker, behind a barrage of crackling static. He twisted his power dial to the upper limit.</p>
    <p>“—ling Evan Paige! Aronson calling Evan Paige! Aronson calling—”</p>
    <p>“It’s him!” Sparky yelled wildly.</p>
    <p>Paige barked into the microphone. “Paige answering! Good Lord, Dr. Aronson, it’s about time! What happened? Where are you?”</p>
    <p>“At the center of Earth!” The scientist’s voice came back almost casually.</p>
    <p><i>“What?”</i> snapped Paige. “You’re joking!”</p>
    <p>Sparky had started, and then made a sad gesture with his finger tapping his forehead.</p>
    <p>“Not at all.” The scientist’s voice, with a weird howl in it from underground interference, went on eagerly. “You remember that we found the linked caverns, at the back of Mammoth Cave. We followed them down, for ten days, as you know from our previous contact. At sixty miles down, we came to the heat-zone, where our troubles started. Molten lava flows there, in the caverns. The worst happened. Peters, Henderson and Bode slipped and fell while we ran. All three died!”</p>
    <p>Paige and Sparky looked at each other, shocked.</p>
    <p>Aronson’s voice went on tersely, as if he had steeled himself against useless emotion. “I grabbed up the portable radio and kept running. Escaped the lava. But the set was damaged. I couldn’t contact you. The rest is unbelievable.”</p>
    <p>“The <i>rest!</i>” Sparky muttered ironically.</p>
    <p>Aronson resumed in a lower tone.</p>
    <p>“I’ll give it to you straight from the shoulder, Evan. There’s a vast world down here. And people! Human beings, but total albinos. They’ve never seen the sun. Don’t know our upper world exists, as we didn’t know theirs did!”</p>
    <p>“Completely daffy!” breathed Sparky. “Poor guy.”</p>
    <p>“People; human beings!” Paige recovered quickly. So many incredible things were happening, one more didn’t matter. He grinned a little. “Even you didn’t suspect that, Dr. Aronson.”</p>
    <p>“No. And they’ve kept me busy. I didn’t have a chance to repair my set and contact you, Evan, till now. You see, there’s a war down here, just like above. Earth is a honeycomb of natural caverns, as I theorized originally. The albino people inhabit them and the total population is as much as on Earth’s surface. They have separate nations, and they are warring, with scientific weapons, just like in Europe when I left the surface.”</p>
    <p>Paige was about to break in, to destroy that illusion, but the scientist went on rapidly. His voice was eager, with the eagerness of his calling.</p>
    <p>“But all that to the side, think what this means! A whole new underground world discovered! I’m going to try to escape and return to the surface. All my theories about a non-molten, honeycombed Earth are proven true. When I get above I’ll wave the proof in front of certain learned colleagues who sneered at me—”</p>
    <p>Paige did break in now, with a harsh, mirthless laugh. He spoke slowly, bitterly.</p>
    <p>“The upper world isn’t what you knew, Dr. Aronson. There isn’t a European war any more. Two months ago the unbelievable happened. Beings from another world—from Mars— attacked Earth! They are utterly savage, ruthless, bent on wiping out humanity!”</p>
    <p>How fantastic it sounded, in Paige’s own ears!</p>
    <p>“Now <i>you’re</i> joking!” gasped Aronson.</p>
    <p>“No joke,” Paige returned grimly. “They’re a scientific—<i>super</i>scientific race. They’re blasting down cities steadily. In the first few weeks, their swift rocket ships blew most of our aircraft out of the sky. Even the great German fleet only lasted a month. After that, in Europe, it settled down to ground warfare. We put army after army against them. Soldiers lately bitter enemies fought side by side. The pride of French, Italian, Russian, German troops marched into their long-range kill-beams. They have ray-weapons. Our cannon can’t even reach halfway to their projectors. Standing armies no longer exist. Now everyone marches to battle, even women. But it’s hopeless. I think half of humanity in Europe, where the Martians first landed, is gone already. The end may be near for the human race. I can’t begin to describe the stark horror of it!”</p>
    <p>“But, Dr. Aronson—”</p>
    <p>A blazing thought had struck Paige. He went on hoarsely:</p>
    <p>“Can we recruit those albino-people to help us? They’re scientific, and know fighting. Will they help us? They mustl They’re human, you say—”</p>
    <p>Paige stopped, a little dazed by the stupendous revelation of underground civilization, wondering if it could be true.</p>
    <p>Aronson, in turn, still seemed stunned hy the stupendous revelation of Martian invasion. He spoke finally, in a choking whisper.</p>
    <p>“Possibly, Evan. But I wonder. You see, they don’t believe in the existence of an upper world. And—”</p>
    <p>Without warning, the radio suddenly went dead. But not at Aronson’s end. Paige’s set had blinked out, and with it all the electric lights. They heard dull thuds, from the center of town. Sparky was already limping to the window, and flung it wide. Aronson’s laboratory-home was on the outskirts of Cincinnati.</p>
    <p>They saw, in the heart of the city, the sinister iridescent beams that stabbed down from swift rocket ships.</p>
    <p>“A bombing raid by the Martians!” Sparky growled. “They’re starting in on America like Europe. Blasting cities railroads power-houses. Then the final cleanup on the battlefield—”</p>
    <p>Cold rage iced through Evan Paige’s veins. He felt his way back to the workbench in the dark and picked up the draft-paper.</p>
    <p>“Yeah, that’s it, Sarge!” snarled Sparky. “We’ll join up now and fight those Martian snakes. I want to get in my lick at them.”</p>
    <p>Paige crumpled the paper in his hand suddenly. “Wait! What about those albino-people? A mysterious scientific race under Earth! If we could get their help—”</p>
    <p>“Sarge, for Lord’s sake!” exploded Sparky. “You don’t <i>believe</i> that story? The old guy went crazy, somewhere down there. Why, it’s like a fairy tale.”</p>
    <p>Paige gripped the little man’s arm and squeezed. “Sparky, I wouldn’t have believed about the Martians either, except that it happened.”</p>
    <p>“But, Sarge—”</p>
    <p>A banging at the door interrupted them. Sparky groped his way down the hall to the front door, Paige following. Three men in uniform stood in the doorway; and played flashlight beams over them.</p>
    <p>“Drafting commission,” announced the head officer. “We’re looking for slackers.” After a significant pause, he said harshly, “Come along, you two.”</p>
    <p>Sparky looked at Paige, shrugged and made a step forward.</p>
    <p>“Wait!” Paige suddenly made up his mind. “We didn’t report for duty because—” He gave the details briefly. “So you see, we’ve got to get power somehow and re-contact Dr. Aronson. It’s important, more important than going into the front line.”</p>
    <p>The officer glanced at his men cynically. “First time I heard <i>that</i> excuse! Even at a time like this, cowards lie for their skins. Afraid to fight, eh? Come along, slackers!”</p>
    <p>“Afraid to fight!” Sparky’s voice was an angry shriek. Paige pulled him back, as he made for the man with balled fists. Sparky growled. “We fought in Spain, and Finland. I got my limp in Rumania. And you think we’re afraid to fight!”</p>
    <p>Paige had a scar on his shoulder from Rumania, too. They had come back, with their wounds. While convalescing with Dr. Henry Aronson, his dead father’s old friend, he and Sparky had become interested in and part of the underground project.</p>
    <p>“All right, then come along,” said the recruiting officer. “You’re experienced soldiers.”</p>
    <p>Paige flung off the man’s hand. “Don’t you understand? What good are we, as two more soldiers? We’ve got to stay here and re-contact the underworld, I tell you!”</p>
    <p>“Underworld!” snorted the officer, in utter disbelief. “The Martians have Europe licked. They set up a base in Georgia a week ago. Now they’re raiding American cities. Don’t you realize you’ve got to fight?”</p>
    <p>His voice was suddenly dogged, harried. “Earth has to fight to the last man!”</p>
    <p>“That’s just it,” Paige shot back. “There’s no hope. But if we get help from the und—”</p>
    <p>“Take your choice!” rasped the officer, whipping out a pistol. “My orders are to shoot any slackers who resist!”</p>
    <p>Paige and Sparky went. Paige couldn’t blame the officer for not believing the story. Even Sparky didn’t. And Paige himself wondered. Maybe there wasn’t any underground world. Maybe Aronson was crazy mad, trapped in some corner of the strange subterranean world.</p>

    <h4 class="space">II</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span> WEEK later, Paige’s regiment took the full brunt of a Martian attack, somewhere in South Carolina. It was all a hellish confusion.</p>
    <p>Overhead, swift Martian rocket craft outmaneuvered American pursuit ships and shot them down steadily. Earth artillery pounded briefly, and then the guns exploded as creeping neutron-rays touched off shells prematurely.</p>
    <p>Finally, across no-man’s-land came a wave of Martians, with long-range kill-beams. On all sides of Paige and Sparky soldiers threw up their hands with choked cries and fell as corpses, as neutron-beams drilled a one-inch hole through lungs and spine.</p>
    <p>The regiment stood its ground, under orders. Men fought grimly, with a doomed look in their eyes. And so it had gone for two months, with the Earth forces steadily being decimated. The Martians, an older race, were maddeningly scientific, equipped with superweapons and superships. Earth’s defenses were toylike in comparison. Complete extermination of the human race seemed the enemy’s aim, so that they might take over the new world for their own.</p>
    <p>“It’s no use, Sparky!” groaned Paige, resting his automatic gun for a moment on the knoll behind which they crouched. His voice was filled with the hollow bitterness that he and all humans felt. “Earth is licked. Extinction faces humanity. There isn’t a chance in the world of winning out against the Martians. It’s just a matter of months—”</p>
    <p>“We’re not licked till the last man goes,” Sparky retorted grimly.</p>
    <p>Paige looked around. In back of the thin line of doomed fighters the way was clear. Paige suddenly clutched the little man’s arm.</p>
    <p>“Come on, Sparky.” His voice was dry, defeated. “We’re deserting.”</p>
    <p><i>“Deserting!”</i> Sparky repeated the word with a good soldier’s utter loathing. “To save our skins? Almighty, Sarge—not you—”</p>
    <p>“Not to save our skins,” Paige said savagely. “To take the one chance left to save Earth!”</p>
    <p>“You mean that funny-sounding underworld business? Sarge now you’re cracked, too.”</p>
    <p>But Paige was already crawling back, away from the line of fighters. Sparky looked up in the war-torn sky, as though for guidance, then followed.</p>
    <p>“Sarge, I’ll stick with you. That makes me a deserter, a skunk and a maniac. Funny, what a man will do at times.”</p>
    <p>They crept back, through bushes and grass, deserting the regiment that was being cut down to the last man. They hid in a woods till night, and then sneaked through the secondary line hastily digging into trenches. In back of its constantly melting front line, the Earth forces were setting up further lines. A hopeless, bitter fight to try and stem the invincible invaders.</p>
    <p>They were shot at several times by sentries, but escaped.</p>
    <p>“Shot at by our own people!” Sparky sobbed brokenly. “We’ll die yet, with bullets in our backs. They’ll kick our bodies and spit at them.”</p>
    <p>Paige winced, but led the way adamantly. To die without honor was horrible. But to die without hope was worse.</p>
    <p>The desertion was easier than they might have thought. The country was disorganized, under the encroaching menace. They stole from farmer’s vegetable patches for food, avoiding cities. They slept in the day, among trees, and moved at night. In a week they had trudged through Tennessee, up into Kentucky.</p>
    <p>“Sarge!” Sparky stopped stock still suddenly. “We’re really fools. What can we do when we get back to the lab in Cincinnati? There’s no electrical power for our radio!”</p>
    <p>“We’re not going there,” Paige returned quietly. “We’re going to Mammoth Cave. We’re going down in the underworld ourselves!”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEY entered the yawning portals of mighty Mammoth Cave.</p>
    <p>Tour-parties had long been suspended, with the coming of the Martians. It was deserted. A forest of stalagmites loomed in the dimness ahead.</p>
    <p>“People have gone in here and never come out,” shivered Sparky. “They went in circles. How do we find the way?”</p>
    <p>“Aronson’s markings,” reminded Paige, pointing to a stalagmite on which had plainly been scratched an arrow with a large “A” beneath it.</p>
    <p>They followed the arrows. The cave-mouth receded, became lost. Utter tomb-like silence surrounded them. Their footfalls sounded like the tread of mammoths. At times they were startled by bats skittering through the air. High overhead, from the vaulted ceiling of rock, hung gigantic stalactites that seemed poised for an instant drop.</p>
    <p>There was fantastic beauty in it. Light from the hidden cave-mouth reflected through the gloom in stabbing beams, sparkling from a thousand crystalline facets. In the dim distance, great arched corridors spread in all directions, like the halls of a cyclopean cathedral. Strange rock formations loomed magnificently, the wildly artistic sculpturings of a wonderland of nature.</p>
    <p>The arrows pointed on and on.</p>
    <p>“How did Dr. Aronson know the way?” Sparky chattered.</p>
    <p>“By his new geologic theory about the crust and all Earth,” Paige informed. “That Mammoth Cave, at some point, must connect to lower caverns.”</p>
    <p>Abruptly a riven gash ran before them across the cave floor. An arrow at the edge pointed down. They clambered down thirty feet. A water-worn passage a hundred yards beyond led out—to where?</p>
    <p>At one point, they had to crawl through a natural tunnel so narrow that Paige’s broad shoulders almost stuck. The passage widened and soon they stood upright, looking out upon a breathless sight.</p>
    <p>On a lower level than Mammoth Cave, and connected to it only by that narrow passage, was a cavern yet more gigantic. Even a small lake lay gemlike in the center, glowing with phosphorescent algae. And beyond stretched corridors, twining through the rock, going on and on, and down and down.</p>
    <p>“The beginning of the underworld!” Paige whispered. “No wonder Dr. Aronson was so excited when he reported this to us.”</p>
    <p>Sparky grunted. “And no wonder he went nuts. Sarge, look. This is all crazy. There can’t be any people down here, no matter how far it goes! Let’s go back, Sarge, and be sensible.”</p>
    <p>For a moment Paige hesitated. Was he being a fool? Could there be a buried race down here? Or was it all hallucination, in a man driven insane? Should he go on this wild goose chase? Or go back to duty? And death!</p>
    <p>What choice was there? They would go on. Sparky accepted the decision with a resigned shrug.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEY scrabbled down the slopes, passed the lake, and followed the arrows into the passage beyond. In the following days they hunted and shot fat cave rats, salamanders and jackdaws for food, toasting them over fires of dried moss. The signs of life increased, rather than diminished, as they went on. They were all albino forms, pigmentless, living without sun.</p>
    <p>They plodded uncountable miles, in the underground maze, unmapped by the upper world. It became like a dream to Paige. He sensed they were going down, ever down, as much as forward. It was as if gravity lured them down into its lair, where there was a choice of grades. Phosphorescent plants and radio-active deposits in the walls lighted the way, dimly.</p>
    <p>The upper world seemed remote. Even the terrible struggle going on up there faded from their thoughts, as though it had happened centuries ago.</p>
    <p>“A new world!” Paige murmured more than once, his voice echoing hollowly through the caverns.</p>
    <p>“Maybe so, Sarge,” Sparky admitted. “But we won’t find any people. I still don’t believe that.”</p>
    <p>Temperature had risen, gradually, steadily. Now, at the end of ten days, it was abominably hot. They peeled their coats, ripped their collars open. They skirted pools of bubbling, steaming water. The soles of their boots became blackened and scorched. Waves of blistering heat radiated from the walls about them. At times they saw lava-flows, like creeping amoeba, reach up from cracks and holes.</p>
    <p>“The heat-zone Aronson mentioned,” Paige said thoughtfully. “Watch your step. Here’s where his three men lost their lives!”</p>
    <p>It became worse. Small rivers of lava flowed sluggishly by. Curtains of steam half blinded them. The air was furnace hot. Stumbling, sweat-soaked, throats seared dry, they were barely able to find the arrows that led on and on into the virtual inferno.</p>
    <p>“Can’t go on!” panted Sparky, his limp dragging at his speed. “Sarge, we can’t go on. We’ll burn alive!”</p>
    <p>But Paige grabbed Sparky’s arm and staggered on grimly. If Dr. Aronson had won through, so could they. Sparky cursed lividly, but said no more.</p>
    <p>Suddenly he screamed: “Look! That lava-flow—it’s coming straight for us!”</p>
    <p>A portion of the wall had broken open to let a flood of smoking molten rock pour out over the passage they were treading. Croaking hoarsely with fear, Sparky tried to run back. But the lava had cut off retreat.</p>
    <p>Paige stood still with hammering pulses, trying to figure out an escape. The damnable vapors cut off vision. A lake of lava began crowding them toward the burning-hot walls. Wasn’t there any way out?</p>
    <p>“We’ll die here like trapped rats!” Sparky shouted. Then he laughed wildly. “We left the Martians, for a death like this!”</p>
    <p>Echoes of the laughter mocked them, ringing back from the cavern walls.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">S</span>UDDENLY Paige lifted his bleary eyes. One sound hadn’t been an echo. It had sounded like a shout—a human shout!</p>
    <p>He peered into the steamy gloom around them. Again the shout, and two figures racing toward them. Humanlike figures! The foremost was a female form, long ash-white hair streaming back. Her skin, too, was alabaster white, and her eyes pink, She was an albino. She was like a white angel darting through the steam curtain.</p>
    <p>“I’ve gone daffy, like Aronson,” moaned Sparky. “I think I’m seeing angels.”</p>
    <p>The two figures came up. The white girl-creature grasped Paige’s arm and forced him to stumble through the blinding vapors. Her male counterpart hustled Sparky along. They could see.</p>
    <p>Paige’s bloodshot eyes saw the sudden upwelling of hot, molten rock, sweeping toward them like a tide, threatening to cut them off. They made it to a side passage with just seconds to spare. It was like an infernally detailed nightmare.</p>
    <p>Paige felt coolness touch his fevered brow in the new corridor. The white angel half dragged him along another hundred yards, then stopped. The white male let Sparky go, as he leaned against a wall. In dim radioactive glow, the four people looked at each other.</p>
    <p>Sparky’s eyes were bulging. He reached out to touch his rescuer.</p>
    <p>“He’s real!” Sparky gasped. “My Lord, Sarge, they’re real!”</p>
    <p>“Of course,” panted Paige. “These are the albino people.”</p>
    <p>“Then Aronson wasn’t cracked—” Sparky began.</p>
    <p>They both started as the albino girl spoke quickly. “Aronson,” she repeated in a lilting tone nodding her head. “Dr. Aronson—” The rest was a flood of her own tongue.</p>
    <p>“You know Dr. Aronson?” Paige queried. “Do you know any of our language?”</p>
    <p>The girl seemed puzzled, her eyes on him. Suddenly she smiled, and Paige smiled back. Somehow, the ache of his muscles, the burning of his skin seemed all worth while to meet this marble-white girl of another world.</p>
    <p>Sparky was shaking his arm. “Don’t you hear me? I said—oh, never mind.” He grinned suddenly. “Quite a nice number, eh? But her boy-friend’s kind of jealous.”</p>
    <p>Paige started and looked around. The albino man was frowning. He gestured for them to move on.</p>
    <p>The way wound erratically down. At times it was rough going. The girl helped Paige’s staggering legs, while the man helped Sparky. Sure-footed as goats, the albino-people never faltered.</p>
    <p>A few minutes later they were standing at the lip of a cavern more gargantuan than any Paige and Sparky had yet seen. They gasped. There was a city in it.</p>
    <p>Dwellings had been hollowed out of the rock walls, with stone steps leading to the entrances. The center space, surrounding a mirror-like lake, was a checkerboard of tilled fields bearing albino-crops, tended by albino people. Sounds arose, the welcome noises of a busy, civilized community, sweet to their ears after the ghastly echoing silences of the cave above. The farther wall was pockmarked with tunnels; man-made passages from which came the roar of machinery.</p>
    <p>It was a fairy-like scene, weirdly lovely in a radioactive glow shed by huge globe-lamps, again man-made, hanging in the high vaulted ceiling. Paige thrilled. Civilization after all, in this sunless world, and albino people identical to humans except for lack of skin pigment.</p>
    <p>“Well,” he told Sparky, “Dr. Aronson was right.”</p>
    <p>Sparky for once had nothing to say.</p>
    <p>They were led to one of the cliff-dwellings, overlooking the community. Utterly worn out by their ordeal through the fire-zone, they thankfully climbed into hammocks, and slept the sleep of the dead-weary.</p>

    <h4 class="space">III</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE awoke, feeling wonderfully rested. He swung his eyes to look through an open window, down at the albino people’s city.</p>
    <p>And there were more cities. Two billion human souls, if Aronson were right, living like moles. A hustling, teeming world here within Earth’s core! As many humans living without the sun as under its rays! Suddenly the whole thing seemed fantastic, incredible.</p>
    <p>But here it was!</p>
    <p>And then, Paige felt a queer satisfaction stealing through him. The Martians up above were only killing off one-half of the human race. They didn’t know either of this mysterious underworld.</p>
    <p>In a way, it was almost a joke on those heartless monsters from another planet. Joke? It would be more than a joke, soon.</p>
    <p>“You awake, Sarge?” came Sparky’s voice. “I’ve been lying here wondering if it’s all true.”</p>
    <p>“It’s an amazing riddle, Sparky. Civilization below Earth’s surface. Wonder if Dr. Aronson knows all the answers? We’ll have to get to him, somehow, at the center of Earth.”</p>
    <p>“Center of Earth!” scoffed Sparky. “I won’t believe that yet.”</p>
    <p>“Still skeptical?” Paige laughed. He sobered. “After what we’ve seen, we can’t doubt anything. And thank Heaven for it. Don’t forget what we’re here for, Sparky—to enlist the albino people in the fight against the Martians. They—”</p>
    <p>He stopped, as the man and girl who had rescued them appeared, smiling a greeting.</p>
    <p>Paige took a longer look at them. He stared at the girl till her almost colorless eyes, dropped. A vivid scarlet blush touched her marble-white skin. Cosmetics were known to these people, for her eyebrows and eyelashes were tinged with black paint, and her cheeks and lips with a red tint, to relieve otherwise uniform white features. She looked very human.</p>
    <p>Sparky was more practical. “We’re hungry,” he said. “Very, very hungry.”</p>
    <p>The two stared in perplexity till Sparky pantomimed eating, at which the girl nodded quickly, left, and returned with steaming bowls of gruel-like food. Paige and Sparky gulped it down as fast as they could, finding it enigmatically tasty. New strength flowed through their bodies, wasted by the trek through the endless caverns and the hell-hot fire zone.</p>
    <p>Paige gave a sigh of satisfaction, and introduced themselves, wishing he could launch a flood of questions that plagued him.</p>
    <p>“Evan Paige! Sparky Donovan!” repeated the girl, nodding, apparently with a quick ear for new words. “Names—him Tal Rithor. Me—Reena Meloth.” Her hand touched Paige’s momentarily.</p>
    <p>Paige noticed again the quick frown in Tal Rithor’s face, and grinned a little. “Don’t worry, Tal,” he said. “I’m not your rival.”</p>
    <p>“Yet!” Sparky added under his breath. Aloud he exclaimed, “But, Sarge, she used a couple of English words! She must have learned some from Aronson.”</p>
    <p>Paige nodded, wondering how much English they knew. “How far underground are we?” he asked.</p>
    <p>“No understand,” returned the girl blankly, after a moment of thought.</p>
    <p>“Where are you people from?” essayed Paige, speaking slowly and distinctly.</p>
    <p>“No understand.”</p>
    <p>Paige checked the turmoil of further questions on his lips. Which didn’t they understand—his words or the ideas behind them?</p>
    <p>The girl leaned fonvard. “We learn lill your words. From Dr. Aronson.”</p>
    <p>“Where is he?” queried Paige. “At the center of Earth?” That thought, in spite of the astounding confirmation of the subterranean world, still seemed stretching a point.</p>
    <p>The girl shook her head without a shred of comprehension. “Him Center. Sick place. Him there.”</p>
    <p>It might mean anything. “Can we go to him?” Paige asked patiently.</p>
    <p>“No,” Reena Meloth emphasized the flat negative with a shake of her ash-blonde head, Tal Rithor following suit.</p>
    <p>“Why?” demanded Paige.</p>
    <p>The albino man spoke this time. “You fighters! You fight!”</p>
    <p>“I don’t like his tone,” Sparky asserted in a low aside. He had always formed quick likes and dislikes. “I wouldn’t trust him.”</p>
    <p>Paige nudged his friend quiet but didn’t like the albino man’s tone either. He took a breath. Now that he had found out they vaguely understood English, he prepared to launch into the most important aspect of their mission.</p>
    <p>“Listen,” he said slowly. “We must see Dr. Aronson. We have come down from the upper world for a purpose—a grave purpose. An enemy is wiping out the human race up there. We need help. Do you understand?”</p>
    <p>“No.” Both shook their heads in absolute lack of comprehension. Again Paige had the nagging thought that it was his meaning they failed to grasp.</p>
    <p>Sparky was shaking his head, too. “We’ll never get anywhere this way, Sarge. We’ll have to teach them our language better, or learn theirs.”</p>
    <p>Paige grunted. “We’ll learn theirs. I hate to take the time, with Earth being blasted day by day, but we’ll have to.” He turned to the girl. “Will you teach us your language?”</p>
    <p>She nodded brighty. This she seemed to understand. “Start now,” she said. She spoke to Tal Rithor rapidly in their flowing speech. He nodded, rather reluctantly, shot a glance at Paige, and left.</p>
    <p>“I still don’t like him,” Sparky murmured.</p>
    <p>“Forget it!” Paige snapped. “It’s trivial. We’re here to learn the language first, contact Aronson, and get help for Earth!”</p>
    <p>In his mind, he pictured what was happening up in the world they had left. New York, London, Paris, Berlin—falling before giant forces spawned in Martian minds. Humanity facing extinction.</p>
    <p>The girl began pointing to objects, giving their names in her strange tongue.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>N a week, they knew more than a smattering of the albino people’s speech. With a flair for language Paige had learned fast. He was amazed himself, but realized that a demon drove him, sharpened his mind.</p>
    <p>Reena spent all waking hours with them. She told them much of the strange new world they had dropped into, as they learned words. Dorthia it was called by the inhabitants. Underworld, Paige and Sparky called it between themselves. Millions of human beings lived down here, as easily as up above.</p>
    <p>Reena conducted them through the cavern-city. Industry was well developed. The albino people had metal alloys, and inexhaustible supplies of ore all about them. They had electricity, fast transportation, and were superb structural engineers. They had, apparently through a long history, hollowed out many artificial caverns, and so extended their range of living.</p>
    <p>Later, watching a new tunnel being extended, Paige became thoughtful. A giant machine on rollers, with a spout something like a cannon, slowly edged forward, guided by workmen. An invisible force shot from it peeling the wall down steadily, converting rock into compressed heavy matter that was carted away. It was something Earth science knew nothing of.</p>
    <p>“Reena,” Paige asked, using the newfound language haltingly, “what force does that machine use?”</p>
    <p>“It is atom-breaking,” she responded. “Energy springs forth when atoms are broken down.”</p>
    <p>“Atomic-energy! Or at least a form of it!” Paige gasped eagerly. “Sparky, do you know what it means?”</p>
    <p>“A weapon for our forces, against the Martians?” Sparky guessed quickly.</p>
    <p>Paige whirled on Rena, his eyes blazing. “Reena,” he said in her tongue, “I think I can explain now, in your words. We’re from the upper world. It is being destroyed. Martians, beings from another planet, have attacked—”</p>
    <p>He stopped, at her utterly blank stare. “Upper world?” she repeated. “There is no upper world.”</p>
    <p>Paige and Sparky looked at each other. “But there is,” Paige returned patiently. “You saw us come down from what you people call the Fire Zone. Dr. Aronson, too.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">S</span>HE frowned thoughtfully. “Yes. And you are strangely dark-skinned. Dr. Aronson stumbled through the Fire Zone, which is strange. Tal and I were there, by chance, as we liked to look upon the fires. When you came through, we were there because Tal almost believed there might be a world above the terrible Fire Zone.”</p>
    <p><i>“Almost!”</i> reiterated Paige. “You don’t believe—”</p>
    <p>“We believe,” said the girl, “that you come from an unexplored cave-city beyond the Fire Zone.”</p>
    <p>“Not cave-city.” Paige wondered how to express himself, still unhandy with their language. “My world is beyond the caves. It is open, wide, free. It is under the ‘sky’”—he was forced to use the English word and an all-embracing gesture—“and there are ‘stars’ and the ‘moon’ and ‘winds’ and ‘rain’ and ‘sunshine.’”</p>
    <p>He stopped, caught by a sudden sigh. “You’re homesick, Sarge,” Sparky said bluntly. There was also a longing look in his eye.</p>
    <p>Reena looked still more perplexed. “I do not understand,” she murmured. Then she laughed rouguishly. “Whatever strange cave you came from, your people are gifted with much imagination!”</p>
    <p>“Imagination, she calls it!” Sparky snorted.</p>
    <p>Paige fumed at the girl’s hard-headed attitude, like an ant denying the existence of anything beyond his ant-heap.</p>
    <p>Reena had become grave suddenly. “Perhaps you and your friend had better return to your cave-city beyond the Fire Zone,” she said with averted eyes. “We are at war here. You will be conscripted. Tal is commander of this city’s military force. He is rather hard at times. He needs every man.”</p>
    <p>“War!” Paige was reminded again of the holocaust above ground. How could he forget it, even for an instant? “Reena, there is war in my world. We need help—”</p>
    <p>“We do not go to your cave asking for help,” she returned, sharply.</p>
    <p>“But this is different. Monsters from another world are attacking Earth—”</p>
    <p>Again her uncomprehending stare of puzzled disbelief.</p>
    <p>“No use, Sarge,” muttered Sparky in English. “Can’t you see it’s like talking Greek?”</p>
    <p>Paige grasped the girl’s arm. “Dr. Aronson—where is he?”</p>
    <p>“He is down in the Center. Tal sent him there, to help care for the wounded.”</p>
    <p>“Can he come to us?”</p>
    <p>“No.”</p>
    <p>“Then we’ll go to him. Tell us how.”</p>
    <p>The ash-blonde head shook a negative. “You cannot go. Tal will keep you here, to fight—unless you return to your cave.”</p>
    <p>“Can I send a message to Dr. Aronson?” Paige asked desperately.</p>
    <p>“Tal will not allow it.”</p>
    <p>Sparky growled: “What is this Tal, a dictator?”</p>
    <p>They had returned to their cliff-dwelling. Tal was waiting for them, glancing from the girl to Paige scowlingly. Paige ignored that and repeated his request to see Dr. Aronson.</p>
    <p>“No,” Tal Rithor said flatly. “Only the wounded go to the Center. This is wartime. You are able-bodied men. I need you in defense of the city.”</p>
    <p>Paige ground his teeth. Their story disbelieved. No spark of concern, or even comprehension, for the tale they brought. Impressed into military service! Paige decided on a show-down. The pistol that he still had leaped into his hand from its holster.</p>
    <p>But Tal had been on guard. A hand-weapon of his own came out just as swiftly. The eyes of the two men locked. Reena fell back with a gasp. Sparky poised on the balls of his feet, ready for anything.</p>
    <p>“Don’t shoot, or I will,” Tal barked. “If you kill me, my men will get you. You can’t escape!”</p>
    <p>Paige relaxed and holstered his gun. It had been a mad thing to do, antagonizing Tal still more.</p>
    <p>“But, Tal,” he pleaded, “if you’ll only listen carefully to my story—”</p>
    <p>“This is war,” the albino man returned coldly. “We cannot help in your war, while we have our own. You are free to go back to your own cave. If you stay, you fight with us.”</p>
    <p>“Crazy world,” Sparky grunted. “Or is it? Before the Martians came, up above, the nations of Europe—”</p>
    <p>A noise interrupted a—brazen clang that reverberated through the city-cavern deafeningly. Tal and Reena stood for a moment frozenly. Then the albino man darted away with a startled shout.</p>
    <p>“Attack!” breathed Reena. “By our enemies. King Luth of Uldorn and his people are trying to gain control of this section of caverns!”</p>

    <h4 class="space">IV</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE watched. It seemed to be a skirmish, rather than battle. From the remotest corridors pressed the attackers, a few thousand albino men, firing long rifle-like weapons. The city’s defense force retaliated from concealed ledges. Paige wondered what their weapons did. His answer came abruptly.</p>
    <p>There was a queer crunching sound, as though millions of crystals were being squeezed together, and then a six-inch portion of the stone window frame chipped away, next to his elbow. But the piece that dropped was only one inch in size!</p>
    <p>“Stand back!” warned Reena. “Another stray shot might hit you. If you do not know our weapons, they fire a bolt that causes atoms to collapse together, like the tunnel-digging machines.”</p>
    <p>“Atomic-power weapons!” Paige said excitedly.</p>
    <p>“If we had them up above, we’d lick the Martians!” cried Sparky.</p>
    <p>“We’ve got to get out of Tal’s hands,” Paige groaned. “Find Aronson and figure out how to bring help to the surface.”</p>
    <p> Reena’s hand was on his arm, her lovely pale eyes on his. “It is important for you to see your Dr. Aronson?”</p>
    <p>Paige grasped her shoulders. “Reena, if I could only tell you how important!”</p>
    <p>She looked at him for another moment, then spoke tensely.</p>
    <p>“This is just a skirmish. I think the Uldorn forces only wrant to find out gun emplacements. They are planning for a bigger attack, in the future. Go down among our forces and fight!”</p>
    <p>Paige was confused. Was she using an age-old appeal simply to force him to help her side? “But that’s just what I don’t want to do!” he exploded. “I can’t fight in your crazy war while up above—”</p>
    <p>His voice ground to a stop. Did she think him a coward?</p>
    <p>She was looking at him strangely. “The wounded go to the Center,” she said quietly.</p>
    <p>“I get it!” yelled Sparky. “It’s our one way to get to Aronson. Sarge, she’s telling us how.”</p>
    <p>Paige was already running for the door. He glanced back at her, but she had averted her eyes.</p>
    <p>On the cavern-city’s floor level, the two men came up behind the Dorthian lines. Tal Rithor, directing operations, turned in surprise.</p>
    <p>“We will fight,” Paige said shortly.</p>
    <p>“Good. Our weapons are easy to operate.”</p>
    <p>“What’s wrong with this?” Paige pulled his pistol from its holster again.</p>
    <p>Tal glanced at it and laughed. “Bullets? We stopped using such guns a hundred years ago. Here,” he snapped an order and an aide brought two of their rifles. “Use these. Get up in the front line and pick off as many of the enemy as you can. This is little more than a skirmish. The experience will be good for you. There will be heavier attacks in the future.”</p>
    <p>He turned away.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE and Sparky found themselves behind a stone bulwark, a moment later, with grooves in which to rest the rifles. With a swift glance over the weapon, Paige found the trigger-lever at the side that would release blasts of atom-compressing force. He sighted along the barrel at a dim figure in the enemy uniform of blue, creeping forward in the corridor from which the attackers had come.</p>
    <p>The weapon had no kick. There was just a faint hum as he pulled the trigger. But in the “V” of the sights, three hundred yards away, the blue-clad Uldornian threw up his hands and toppled backward.</p>
    <p>Paige closed his eyes for a moment, shuddering. The man’s head had completely vanished, reduced instantaneously to crushed matter.</p>
    <p>This was a wonderful—or frightful— weapon! Even the Martians, with their rustling kill-beams of neutrons, had no such power of death in so small a weapon.</p>
    <p>Paige shuddered, too, because he had killed a man against whom he had no slightest enmity or cause. Yet it had been necessary, to find out the true potentiality of the underworld weapon.</p>
    <p>“What a gun!” Sparky was crowing beside him, bending to his sights for the second time.</p>
    <p>Paige pulled him away. “No more, Sparky. Now we know this is the weapon we need for upper Earth. No sense killing albino men.”</p>
    <p>“But, Sarge!” Sparky was puzzled. “They’ll notice we’re faking. And we have to get wounded—or killed!” He twisted his lips in a wry grimace. “On second thought, this is kind of wacky—shopping for a wound. A crazy suggestion by a woman, and we go prancing off—”</p>
    <p>“She was a step ahead of you,” Paige cut him off. “Sparky, we’ve got to get to that Center, where Aronson is. There’s only one way, with a wound. Even if we—” He paused.</p>
    <p>“—have to do it ourselves!” gasped Sparky, in dawning comprehension. “But, Sarge, that’s worse than our deserting was.”</p>
    <p>He stopped at the grim, implacable look in Paige’s eye. Events seemed to force them to do these incredible things, to fulfil their strange mission.</p>
    <p>A moment later it was done, as they crouched low behind the stone parapet. The other albino soldiers were too busy to look. Paige winced as Sparky carefully sent a bullet through the fleshy part of his left shoulder. Then Page calmly aimed his pistol for a shot through Spark’s right shoulder. They did not trust using the unfamiliar blast-rifles. Wounds were alike.</p>
    <p>They crawled back from the firing line, holding their wounds as though two shots from the enemy had grazed their shoulders.</p>
    <p>“Shooting ourselves!” Spark mumbled, outraged. “What in the name of Lucifer will we try next?”</p>
    <p>“Anything!” Paige shot back. “Anything at all to bring help to upper Earth.”</p>
    <p>First-aid women, in the safety zone, quickly ripped their shoulders free and dabbed on some antiseptic, and then taped the wounds. Tal suddenly appeared.</p>
    <p>“Wounded already?” he grinned. “You will go to the Center immediately, for recuperation.”</p>
    <p>“Figure out why <i>he</i> wanted you fighting right away,” whispered Sparky. “He’s glad you’re going away from Reena!”</p>
    <p>Paige was also glad, for a different reason. To the Center meant finding Aronson, and getting somewhere in his baffling quest.</p>
    <p>“You were a little careless,” Tal went on. “It’s a good lesson. When you come back, recovered, you’ll be good fighters. I’ll need you.” He turned away on his heel.</p>
    <p>The skirmish was over abruptly. The attackers left as suddenly as they had come leaving a hundred dead. The hissing of weapons died away.</p>
    <p>Paige and Sparky found themselves bundled, along with other wounded, before a structure that vaguely resembled a subway kiosk. Reena was there, along with other albino women who had come to see the wounded off.</p>
    <p>She extended her hand, relief in her face. “I was afraid I might have sent you to—worse. Now you will find your Dr. Aronson. Perhaps we will meet again.”</p>
    <p>She said it as if they were strange beings who might at any moment vanish as suddenly as they had appeared in the albino world.</p>
    <p>Paige stared. He was struck again by her snow-white beauty, under the radium-glow lamps. How would she look in the bright sunshine of Earth? Probably, he thought, like a rare white orchid rescued from gloomy jungle.</p>
    <p>Paige was queerly disturbed. Was she human, with her exotic whiteness? At times this seemed like a dream, humans sixty miles below the foundations of Earth cities. And the albino people looked so cold, statuesque, unreal. Impulsively, he bent to kiss her. Other soldiers were kissing women farewell. His doubts dispelled. Her lips were warm, her body supple. This was a girl as human as any above.</p>
    <p>Sparky turned away, with a soft whistle.</p>
    <p>She yielded only for a moment, then broke away. A spark of fury flashed from her rose-irised eyes. “How dare you?” she said coldly. “Tal Rithor is my future husband.”</p>
    <p>“Sorry,” mumbled Paige, cursing himself for a fool.</p>
    <p>The girl, still furious, whirled away and vanished in the crowd.</p>
    <p>“You know, Sarge,” Sparky said softly, “when they get angry like that, it means something!”</p>
    <p>Paige straightened. “Never mind about that. The important thing is meeting Aronson.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>NSIDE the kiosk, they were hustled into one of a long train of little cars, resting on a smooth runway that further on dipped down into rock-bound tunnel. They lay flat in the car, made for that position. An attendant slid tight a cover and they were sealed in.</p>
    <p>“I feel nervous,” vouched Sparky. “Like my first subway ride as a kid. Wonder where this hospital Center is?”</p>
    <p>“At the center of Earth, four thousand miles down.”</p>
    <p>“Naw,” snorted Sparky. “It’s somewhere near. Why would they send wounded men four thousand miles? Its name happens to the the Center, where Doc Aronson is. He was just fooled into thinking it meant Center of Earth.” Outside, partly muffled, they heard a warning signal. Then motion. As if brakes had been released, the train rattled forward on the runway, smoothly gathering speed.</p>
    <p>Paige felt the gradual dip downward, into the tunnel. When he felt pressure on his feet, he knew they were vertical. He was in reality standing up now—not lying down—in a car that dropped straight down! Yet the pressure on his feet was light. Was the car simply a free-falling body, being yanked down by force of gravity?</p>
    <p>A low whine sounded from outside and within minutes the train rumbled along with the sound of a streamlined express roaring at top speed.</p>
    <p>Paige felt pressure against his eardrums that made him swallow. Counting mentally, he timed the period of acceleration, till the sensation of drop became uniform. Paige grunted as though his breath had been knocked out, when he figured it out.</p>
    <p>“Wonder how fast we’re going?” yelled Sparky above the whine.</p>
    <p>“About a thousand miles an hour!” Paige yelled back.</p>
    <p>Paige wanted to think over the amazing adventure he had dropped into, from the upper world. But now lassitude stole over him. He felt light-headed. In his weakened condition, from loss of blood, his mind whirled into blankness. Sparky was quiet beside him.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE awoke with a start. An attendant was shaking his good shoulder, urging him up. Their car was open, and the train had come to a stop.</p>
    <p>“Are you all right?”</p>
    <p>Paige nodded dazedly, feeling queer, and started to rise on his elbows. The attendant’s hand restrained him for a moment.</p>
    <p>“Don’t make any sudden moves,” he warned. “Use your arms to get out.” It was routine instruction, given passengers in peace-time, no doubt, as well as when a train-load of wounded came.</p>
    <p>Paige lifted himself over the edge of the car with his arm muscles—an impossible acrobatic feat! That is, impossible against gravity. He further astonished himself by remaining suspended in the air, his body horizontal, once he was out. He stayed that way, feeling paralyzed, helpless, out of his element.</p>
    <p>With no amusement, the attendant reached up and pulled him down. “Keep your hands on the guide-rail!”</p>
    <p>Sparky bounced out like a rubber ball, and had to be pulled down, too, floundering and kicking his legs in the air. When he had his hands safely on the guide-rail, he was panting.</p>
    <p>“I feel like a fish out of water,” he growled. “What’s wrong, Sarge? I feel like a feather!”</p>
    <p>“There’s no gravity here,” Paige returned. “There’s only one spot on or in Earth that would have no force of gravity, because of equal pull in all directions.” He looked at Sparky half maliciously. “The center of Earth.”</p>
    <p>Sparky gasped. “You mean we’re really there? Four thousand miles down!”</p>
    <p>Paige sympathized with the little man’s utter dumbfoundment. Fantastic, every bit of this.</p>
    <p>They followed a stream of wounded men from the train. Those with serious wounds, unable to move by themselves, were towed through the air like balloons. Paige found walking like the strut of a drum-major, lowering each foot firmly to press forward. He slid one hand along the guide-rail, thankful for its assistance. The path they followed was a metal ramp that seemed to slant upward. And yet, was it upward? Paigne didn’t know.</p>
    <p>Emerging into a large cavern, the ramp stretched without support straight on, like a bridge through empty space.</p>
    <p>“You won’t fall,” Paige chuckled at Sparky’s gasp. “There’s no <i>down</i> here.”</p>
    <p>Paige looked ahead to where the miraculously hanging bridge led. It was a cavern so stupendously huge that the further walls were fused in distant gloom that looked like starless space. A hollow here, in Earth’s core. In the center was a gigantic metal ball, also suspended in the gravityless cavern, moored to the walls by thin wires. Lights streamed from countless rows of apertures.</p>
    <p>“A hanging hospital!” marveled Sparky.</p>
    <p>“A hanging <i>city!</i>” corrected Paige, realizing its true size.</p>

    <h4 class="space">V</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEY entered a large portal. An attendant began to take down some sort of record, asking questions, when another figure strode forward.</p>
    <p>“Evan Paige!”</p>
    <p>Paige looked around into the face of Dr. Aronson, familiar yet different, from months before. The sunless environment had obviously faded his skin, beard and hair. But otherwise, the short, stocky explorer-scientist seemed in good health. “Dr. Aronson!” Paige wrung his hand. “Hi, Doc!” greeted Sparky. “Had to play several tricks to get down here, but here we are.”</p>
    <p>“Good to see you both!” returned the scientist eagerly. “It’s like meeting fellow Americans in some foreign port. I knew you were coming—Reena sent a message, by wire. It’s still a surprise, though. After our radio contact clipped off so suddenly, a month ago, I didn’t know what had happened. I thought perhaps the—the Martians—”</p>
    <p>He stopped. He had said the word queerly. He looked at Paige with a strange, half-skeptical glance, questioningly.</p>
    <p>Paige nodded. “It’s true,” he said quietly. “Too bitterly true.”</p>
    <p>“Then it wasn’t a horrible dream I’d had.” The scientist’s shoulders sagged. “I’d been hoping it was that.” Shaking his head, he turned, beckoning. “I’ll take you to your room.”</p>
    <p>It was down a hall, a small cubicle with two hanging hammocks. Paige looked around for a chair, finding none, then realized standing was no effort at all, in the first place.</p>
    <p>Paige told their story briefly, then looked quizzically at the scientist for his.</p>
    <p>“First of all,” Aronson began, “this floating city is more or less of a huge sanitarium. In war-time, all the Dorthian wounded are brought here, to recover more quickly, and so return to battle sooner.”</p>
    <p>A sanitarium at the center of the Earth! Paige thought of how skeptical, how utterly disbelieving the upper world would be, if told. He shrugged that away. Before 1492, they hadn’t even known of the other half of that upper world. It wasn’t so strange that two worlds could lie almost side by side, without mutual discovery.</p>
    <p>“I came down here to prove my geologic theories,” resumed the scientist. “I found the albino people. Or they found me, Reena and Tal. Neither believed I had come from an upper world, only another ‘cave.’ When Tal found out I was something of an M.D., as well as explorer, he impressed me into service here. Wartime measures. In spare moments I managed to repair my set and signal you. Then the news—”</p>
    <p>His voice was suddenly haggard. “You’re amazed at finding life and civilization below here. I’m amazed that up above, the civilization I knew is crumbling under alien attack.”</p>
    <p>He broke off, shaking his head with a groan.</p>
    <p>“But now there’s some hope!” Paige’s voice rang. “Sparky and I have already used the weapon that will defeat the Martians. You know of it.”</p>
    <p>Aronson brightened. “It will? Then we’ll contrive to go above, and bring the plans of this weapon along.”</p>
    <p>“But that wouldn’t help,” Paige ground out. “Most of our factories have been destroyed. Our industry paralyzed by the enemy’s ceaseless bombing.” He waved an arm around. “We must bring them along an albino army!”</p>
    <p>“Evan, wait a minute,” interposed the scientist, thunderstruck. “How are you going to convince the albino people to send such an army?”</p>
    <p>“How can they refuse?” Paige countered. “They’re human. When they hear of part of their own blood-race being savagely annihilated by monsters from another planet, they’ll flock up there like the crusaders of the Middle Ages!”</p>
    <p>“<i>Will</i> they?” Aronson was slowly shaking his head. “I’ve been accepted as a somewhat mad creature whose poor, dazed mind can’t even remember what ‘cave’ he came from. They’ve fed me, let me live with them, treated me kindly, for that reason. You told me yourself how deaf Reena and Tal were to your story.”</p>
    <p>Paige hardly heard him. He burst in, nervously impatient to start the grand scheme off.</p>
    <p>“Where is the ruling center? Take me there. If we go directly to the authorities, we’ll get somewhere. Where is it?”</p>
    <p>“A cavern quite near here. The ruler of Dorthia is a sort of premier or president, called the Kal of Dorthia. He heard of me and took some slight interest in me. But Evan, I don’t know—”</p>
    <p>“Look,” snapped Paige, shaking the older man like a little child. “Up above maybe half the human race is wiped out, the other half doomed. This is a matter of saving the civilization we know. Get me an audience with this Kal of Dorthia one way or another!”</p>
    <p>Aronson jerked erect. “I’ll do it! Stay here, in the meantime. Your wounds have to heal anyway.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE Kal of Dorthia was a tall, regal albino with a mane of long, blond hair that hung to his shoulders. Paige studied him. His face was intelligent, his eyes keen and kindly. Surely such a man must have an open mind.</p>
    <p>“Dr. Aronson,” nodded the Kal of Dorthia in recognition. “My aide tells me you plagued him ceaselessly for a week for an audience. What is it?”</p>
    <p>The scientist pointed to Paige. “This man recently came from my world. He wishes to speak with you.”</p>
    <p>“Two more dark-skinned men!” marveled the Kal, glancing over Paige and Sparky. “One of my scientists has just advanced the possible theory that you, Dr. Aronson, and these men too, presumably, are”—he paused delicately—“freaks caused by excess radium emanation!”</p>
    <p>“Freaks, nothing!” Paige stepped forward, boiling a little at the albino’s patronizing smile. “We’re from a different world entirely. It exists above and around your world. Millions of human beings like myself live there, and we have a civilization comparable to yours. Three months ago the Martians attacked, beings from another planet—”</p>
    <p>Paige went on, describing the Martian invasion briefly. Aronson helped him when he was stuck for a word in the Dorthian tongue. Paige paused, out of breath, but went right on.</p>
    <p>“In behalf of my world, I appeal for your help. It will not be an easy task. It will take an army of millions. But your fresh forces, powerful weapons, and impregnable base will stop the enemy. You are human. We are human. It is your duty, by race ties alone, to send your help.”</p>
    <p>The Kal of Dorthia had listened patiently. A smile played about his lips at times.</p>
    <p>“Where do these so-called monsters you describe come from?” he queried.</p>
    <p>“From another ‘planet.’ Another world.”</p>
    <p>“You mean another cave?” The Kal looked genuinely puzzled. “Beyond the Fire Zone? But that is the Heavy Region, where our people do not go to live. It’s hardly explored.”</p>
    <p>Paige saw he would have to be more explicit. He did not notice the ironic look in Aronson’s eyes.</p>
    <p>“The Fire Zone lies just beneath Earth’s crust. Climbing up through the crust you emerge into open air. The Earth is a globe, a gigantic ball, hanging in ‘space,’ in nothingness. Other worlds lie in space. Mars is such a ‘planet.’ And from it, across space, have come the invaders. Surely you must understand?”</p>
    <p>“Gigantic globe—space—nothingness? You speak in riddles, dark man. Everyone knows that there is no nothingness, which you call ‘space.’ How can the world be a globe, when there is only rock in all directions?”</p>
    <p>Paige groaned and tried again. He broke out in a sweat from intense explanation. Vaguely he knew himself to be Galileo, trying to say Earth revolved around the sun. Or Columbus, saying the Earth was round and that half the world lay beyond the seas, against all previous belief.</p>
    <p>The Kal of Dorthia suddenly waved an imperious arm, interrupting.</p>
    <p>“It is a mad conception. Dr. Aronson told me the same thing. I convinced him such thoughts are wholly wrong.”</p>
    <p>“But at least you can send an expedition with us beyond the Fire Zone, to disprove our claims,” Paige said desperately.</p>
    <p>“Not at present,” the Kal retorted. “King Luth of Uldorn is again waging war on us. All our activities must go into protection of our cave system.”</p>
    <p>“But Good Lord!” exploded Paige. “Don’t you realize that over your head your own blood-people are being exterminated, massacred!”</p>
    <p>“Enough!” snapped the ruler of Dorthia. “I deal with realities, not the figments of a madman’s brain. Go!”</p>
    <p>Baffled rage shook Paige. He took a step forward, fists clenched, but Aronson pulled him back.</p>
    <p>“Don’t be a fool!” he hissed.</p>
    <p>“No use, Sarge,” Sparky sighed. “Like with Tal and Reena.”</p>
    <p>Paige turned helplessly, to leave the chamber.</p>
    <p>The Kal of Dorthia’s voice floated to them, at the door, “You will be allowed to live with us and be treated well, dark man. I did not mean to be unkind to you.”</p>
    <p>“Treated well, like lunatics they pity!” Sparky muttered.</p>
    <p>Paige ground his teeth, out in the hall. “How could the man refuse? How could he be so obtuse, ignorant, heartless?”</p>
    <p>“No, Evan,” cut in the scientist wearily. “You can’t blame him. Think once, suppose it were the other way around. Suppose two albino men had stumbled up into our world, made their way to Washington, and demanded that the United States send a vast army down to defeat monsters who were wiping out the buried albino race. A race we never heard of, never even dreamed was under our feet. And monsters we couldn’t believe in, because we had never seen them before. Picture that, and then try to picture 130,000,000 practical, hard-headed Americans taking up the crusade.”</p>
    <p>“Yeah, especially past that Fire Zone,” agreed Sparky.</p>
    <p>“Okay, I get it,” muttered Paige. “When you look at it that way, there is some excuse for them. But at least our people would send down an expedition to investigate!”</p>
    <p>“Would they? If powerful, bloodthirsty European armies were invading the coasts at that particular time? Here’s how the situation is: For the past three years, there has been growing friction between the Dorthians and Uldornians. They are the two great ‘powers’ down here. There are separate governments and cultures, just like above. King or Dictator Luth of Uldorn rules over a vast chain of caverns lying roughly under the Pacific Ocean and Asia. He has built up a powerful aggressive army and has been absorbing smaller, independent cave-states. He is now creeping at the ‘borders’ of Dorthia, ready to smash at it with all his power. The Kal of Dorthia is concerned with that, not a hypothetical new world that needs help.”</p>
    <p>“And remember the recruiting officer up above?” put in Sparky. “He didn’t believe about the underworld for a minute. How can we blame these people? We had to desert the Earth forces to even get down here!”</p>
    <p>Paige suddenly felt as though a crushing weight had descended on him. Two worlds, neither of which believed in the other! One world, too panic-stricken with doom to investigate possible rescue. The other, preoccupied with a civil war, unaware that monsters were killing off half their blood-race!</p>
    <p>The gods must be laughing at the cosmic irony of it.</p>
    <p>What could be done? What possible way was there to break this nightmarish deadlock? Paige didn’t know. He just didn’t know any more.</p>

    <h4 class="space">VI</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEY were suddenly electrified by the clanging of a great bell. The sound reverberated through the cavern deafeningly.</p>
    <p>Startled, Aronson turned. Dorthians were scurrying by excitedly. He grabbed the arm of one man, questioned him. His reply was too rapid for Paige and Sparky to grasp.</p>
    <p>“Attack!” Aronson told them. “By Uldornian forces!”</p>
    <p>“Here?” gasped Paige. “At the center of Dorthia?”</p>
    <p>“No. Reena’s city, at the ‘border’ of Dorthia. But a real attack, this time. The beginning of large-scale war. The Kal of Dorthia has just called for general mobilization.”</p>
    <p>The scientist’s face was grave. “This is a big crisis down here in the underworld. The start of a great war that may drag on for years!”</p>
    <p>Paige’s nerves tightened suddenly. Reena in danger! That one thought stood out above all others. He clutched the scientist’s shoulder.</p>
    <p>“I’m going to Reena’s city!” he said hoarsely.</p>
    <p>“Evan, Good Lord—why?”</p>
    <p>“Because he loves her!” Sparky said simply.</p>
    <p>Aronson stared for a moment, then smiled in understanding. “We can’t do much for ourselves right now, anyway. Come on, I’ll take you to the tube-cars.”</p>
    <p>He led the way to the tube-car system. Soldiers were piling in, part of the standing army rushing to the defense of the border. Paige shouldered uniformed men aside and leaped in one of the cars. As he settled himself, Sparky attempted to follow.</p>
    <p>“Not you!” snapped Paige. “It’s enough that I’m crazy fool enough to go. You stay here with Dr. Aronson.”</p>
    <p>“Okay, Sarge,” Sparky said obediently, with a slight quiver of his lips. “Take care of yourself, Sarge.”</p>
    <p>Paige gripped his hand. “I’m a fool, I know. But I can’t help it. If I don’t come back, try your damnedest to talk the Kal into an expedition. I’ll try what I can, maybe on the Uldornians. Some way or other, we’ll work this out.”</p>
    <p>The car’s cover slid forward. A moment later the long train moved, slowly gathering speed. Paige heard the muffled throb of motors, and the drone of powerful rockets. This train was going up, against gravity, and needed power. Yet its speed, after acceleration, was scarcely less than that of free fall. The train roared up into its tube like a runaway comet.</p>
    <p>Paige’s thoughts were in a turmoil. His adventure into the underworld seemed more than ever a page out of the impossible. War raging above ground and below ground. Buried humans fighting under Earth’s crust for a few paltry caves. Doomed humans above ground counting their last hours.</p>
    <p>The universe was a madhouse.</p>
    <p>It was ironic, too, that at the moment Paige cared nothing for those things. Two worlds precariously dangled by fate, and he thought only of Reena, lovely albino girl of the underworld, and her possible danger!</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>IVE hours later the train slowed and ground to a halt.</p>
    <p>Its soldier-passengers stepped out into the midst of battle. The enemy was pressing forward, bent on capturing the tube-station and cutting off both retreat and reinforcement. The trained Dorthian troops scurried for cover, unslung their rifles, and began peppering away.</p>
    <p>Paige gasped as he raised his head and felt a diabolic bolt whine past his ear. Then fire leaped into his eyes. That strange madness which comes over men in battle swept through him. He leaped out with tigerish speed, and crouched behind the protective train. His shoulder wound was completely healed, after a week in the gravityless sanitarium.</p>
    <p>A moment later he picked up the rifle of a Dorthian whose crushed body lay sprawled over the stone floor. He loaded his pockets with charge-clips from slain Dorthians and settled down to the grim business of picking off as many of the enemy as possible. In this way he was helping Reena, who was safe back in the city. But if the city fell—</p>
    <p>Paige looked around.</p>
    <p>A wide no-man’s-land separated the two forces. Periodically the enemy charged in little detachments, never getting more than halfway. But Paige recognized the tactics. The detachments drew concentrated fire, marking the strongest and weakest points of the defending Dorthian line. The Uldornian generals must be paving the way for a great assault, within an hour, Paige reasoned.</p>
    <p>His eyes narrowed suddenly to a frown.</p>
    <p>Why didn’t the Dorthians counterattack and flank? Now was the time. It would be too late soon. It was ABC military tactics. A queer thought struck Paige. Was it possible—just possible—that the military of both Dorthia and Uldorn knew nothing of flanking?</p>
    <p>Napoleon had beaten all Europe to its knees that way, once.</p>
    <p>Paige stopped firing and crawled on hands and knees toward the center of the Doathian forces. He made out the officer in command—a general evidently rushed from headquarters to supersede Tal, now that the full tide of war had begun. He was staring out over the battlefield. Beside him stood Tal Rithor, now second-in-command. There was a strange look in Tal’s face, as he glanced from the battleground to the city, as though contemplating how soon the city would be in enemy hands.</p>
    <p>“Tal!” Paige called, striding up. “Is Reena safe?”</p>
    <p>Tal Rithor started, and flushed as he met Paige’s eyes, as though caught off guard. “So you’re back, Evan Paige? Just in time to see the city fall!”</p>
    <p>Paige grunted at the fatalistic words. He whirled on the high-commander, who hadn’t noticed him.</p>
    <p>“The enemy will attack soon, in force,” Paige said without preamble.</p>
    <p>“Yes, and we will be wiped out,” returned the commander imperturbably, without turning his head. “We are outnumbered. The city will fall. But we will fight to the last man.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>T was starkly clear to Paige then. Middle Age warfare, frontal attack, no strategy, no thought of outwitting the enemy. Paige could almost understand. The albino people had never known wide battlefields on which to experiment with maneuvers.</p>
    <p>Paige drew a breath. Could they be taught?</p>
    <p>“There’s still a chance!” he said. “Look! Send a file of men hugging the left wall, in the shadows. Halfway to the first Uldornian line there’s a hollow. From there they can blast out at the enemy attack from the side, taking them completely by surprise!”</p>
    <p>“What?” For the first time the commander turned, surprised. He started at sight of the dark-skinned man, in a uniform that was not even regulation. “Who are you?”</p>
    <p>“Tal Rithor knows me.”</p>
    <p>“He came through the Fire Zone recently,” Tal nodded. “From some isolated cave beyond. He is not quite—” Tal stopped but the innuendo was plain.</p>
    <p>“We are not playing a game here, dark man,” the commander said, as if to a child. “We are fighting.”</p>
    <p>Paige groaned aloud. Anger surged in his veins.</p>
    <p>“You idiot!” he yelled in English. “Go ahead and murder your troops. I don’t care!” He bit his lip, gripping himself. Once more, desperately, he tried to explain the flanking movement.</p>
    <p>“Evan Paige, you must stop,” interposed Tal, glancing apologetically at his superior officer. “You are trying to tell us our business. Now come with me to the rear lines.”</p>
    <p>Paige flung his hand off with almost a snarl, and kept on speaking. Two other officers had come up, listening. Sudden fire seemed to strike in their minds. The military men looked at one another, and then at Paige.</p>
    <p>“Perhaps it is worth a try!” mused the commander.</p>
    <p>“Sir, it would be a mistake,” Tal deprecated. “My poor friend’s mind thinks up all sorts of queer ideas.”</p>
    <p>Paige glared at the young albino. There was something strange in his attitude. Had Reena perhaps told him of Paige’s kiss, and thus stirred his jealousy? Or was it something deeper, more vital?</p>
    <p>The commander hesitated, trying to make up his mind.</p>
    <p>“You have nothing to lose,” Paige stated flatly.</p>
    <p>“By the head of Luth, no!” the commander exclaimed. “We will try this so-called flanking, dark man. If it fails, we will all die anyway.”</p>
    <p>Paige himself led the men. Single file, a thousand Dorthians crept warily along the left wall, where numerous overhangs and outjuttings cast shadows. An hour later they were lined in two close phalanxes, one kneeling, one standing, as Paige ordered.</p>
    <p>Paige waited tensely. They were barely in time. There was a sudden ominous hush from the enemy. Then they came, in Hun-like tides, charging across the space. Paige held back the signal to fire till the last moment.</p>
    <p>Then his arm flung down.</p>
    <p>A withering crossfire burst from his troops, into the side ranks of the unsuspecting enemy. It was slaughter. The Uldornians pressed forward against the fire from front and side, by sheer momentum. But when Paige gave the order to charge, pressing them into a disorganized mass from his side, they broke. In a half hour the battlefield was clear, except for the dead. The Uldornians had lost heavily. And they hadn’t gained an inch.</p>
    <p>The Dorthian commander, facing Paige again, saluted. “You are hereby appointed my second-in-command!” he said directly. “That was a magnificent maneuver!”</p>
    <p>All the officers murmured agreement. But Paige noted that Tal Rithor’s face was expressionless. He did not show resentment, for being displaced. There was a queer, indefinable air about him, of cold watchfulness.</p>
    <p>The commander’s face fell into worried lines, the next moment. “But it will still go hard with us. The Uldornians are here in full force. They will attack again and again.”</p>
    <p>And they did.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">H</span>OURS flew by. Hours of humming death, dying men, grim struggle for mastery. Paige used all the tricks he knew from Earth’s battlefields: double flanking, sniping, fake counter-attacks, anything and everything to harass the enemy. They might ordinarily have won hours before. Instead, now, the chances were better than even that the Dorthians could hold out till adequate reinforcements came.</p>
    <p>But the enemy prepared for a final gigantic assault. Dorthian lookouts made out the massing of all their troops, behind their lines. Conferring with the officers on this, Paige outlined a daring maneuver. It would be a triple flanking movement. Two thousand men were to slip past the Uldornian left flank, when they charged, and come up from the rear! The enemy, still amazed and baffled at the flanking that robbed them of quick victory, would hardly conceive of attack on their rear.</p>
    <p>Paige and Tal Rithor led the men. They reached their position and waited. Heart pounding, Paige looked for the enemy to appear. And then, suddenly, he was aware that Tal was gone!</p>
    <p>There was little time to think that over, or look for him.</p>
    <p>The grand attack came, like a juggernaut, wave after wave of men.</p>
    <p>While the left flank engaged the van of the attack, Paige waved his men past. A thousand went down, under fire, but the other thousand straggled through, reformed, and swung in a wide circle, to fall on the Uldornian rear.</p>
    <p>Just as Paige was congratulating himself on success, it happened.</p>
    <p>Five thousand yelling, vengeful Uldornians leaped from a concealed vantage, as though waiting for them. They fell on the Dorthian force devastatingly. The Dorthians could not retreat. Paige cursed as his men were decimated on all sides. This shattered the whole Dorthian plan. Uldornian victory was assured.</p>
    <p>As though waiting for them!</p>
    <p>This phrase had stuck in Paige’s mind, all the while that he fought hopelessly, firing from one knee. The Uldornian detachment had been waiting. How had they divined a strategy they knew nothing about?</p>
    <p>There was one possible answer, though Paige hated to think of it—the disappearance of Tal Rithor!</p>
    <p>But nothing mattered any more.</p>
    <p>Paige was marked for death. He felt as he had that day against the Martians, with the regiment doomed. Here he could not even run, with limiting walls on every side. He could only keep firing, accounting for as many of the enemy as possible, before the shot with his number on it arrived.</p>
    <p>He glanced around. Not one of his men was alive, for yards around. He was marooned in an island of dead bodies.</p>
    <p>Up ahead, a body of blue-uniformed men came surging toward him. He fired into their massed numbers, taking savage delight in seeing three men go down like tenpins. Then they spread. The men at both extremes kneeled, taking careful aim at him. Paige got one, but knew he couldn’t get the other.</p>
    <p>He heard the vicious hiss of a bolt and felt a jerk as the gun in his hands took the shot. He was unarmed now! Then he noticed the men running up without firing. They were going to capture him alive! A moment later they gripped his arms and were hustling him back to their lines, out of the battle zone.</p>
    <p>Paige turned back to look. Far across the battlefield strewn with bodies he could see the waves of blue-uniformed Uldornians sweeping past the tube-station and into the city proper. The fight was practically over. The city had fallen.</p>
    <p>When Paige turned his eyes back, he looked directly into the face of Tal Rithor, smiling triumphantly. He had come up from the enemy camp.</p>
    <p>“Renegade!” snarled Paige.</p>
    <p>“Call it what you want,” Tal replied. “The fall of this city was planned, with my aid, weeks ago.” His smile became threatening. “I think King Luth will be interested in seeing the man who caused so many of his troops to be killed needlessly. I told them to take you alive.”</p>

    <h4 class="space">VII</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">H</span>OURS later, rough hands woke Paige from the sleep of utter exhaustion he had fallen into. He was still chained before the enemy headquarters, where they had herded him after the defeat. But now he was not alone. Dozens of Dorthian men were chained nearby, obviously high officials of the fallen city, now prisoners of war. They sat dejected, silent, bitter.</p>
    <p>Paige suddenly sprang to his feet and strained at his bonds. The door of the temporary barracks had opened and Reena Meloth stood framed in it! Behind her came Tal, holding her arm. Seeing Paige, she struggled as though to run to him, but Tal held her firmly.</p>
    <p>“No. You will never have each other!” Tal grated. “After we rescued Evan Paige from the Fire Zone, your attitude toward me changed, Reena. This is my revenge. You must take me or—” He waved around at the Uldornian soldiers suggestively.</p>
    <p>“Snake!” ground out Paige, wrenching futilely at his chains.</p>
    <p>Reena’s eyes met his. Paige thrilled, for in them he saw a glowing light meant for him. Tal, proving himself a renegade to their people, was no longer between them. The swift reversal of relationship left Paige almost giddy with joy, for a moment.</p>
    <p>Only for a moment. Then crushing realization swept over him. He had gained that and lost everything else. A prisoner of the Uldornians, separated from Aronson and Sparky, perhaps for the duration of war. Fool! He had recklessly thrown aside his mission to save upper Earth. What could he do now?</p>
    <p>Paige groaned from the bottom of his soul. Sparky was right. They should never have left the upper world, to embark on this mad adventure. At least, before the Martians, they would have had an honorable death.</p>
    <p>His tortured thoughts were interrupted as a murmur of excitement rose among the Uldornians. All eyes turned.</p>
    <p>From the tunnel passageway that crossed the former “border” of Dorthia and Uldorn came a procession. The enemy king, a short albino man with a long blond mustache, strode at the head of resplendently uniformed troops who marched with strutting legs. A cheer rose from the Uldornians as their king paused at the border-marking, gestured disdainfully, and stepped into Dorthian “territory.”</p>
    <p>Paige watched wonderingly.</p>
    <p>How like a re-enactment of similar scenes on Earth it was! Before the Martians had come, a dictator in Europe had thus stepped triumphantly into captured territory. Nothing new under the sun, or under Earth’s crust itself!</p>
    <p>All the Uldornian army had gathered to watch this momentous occasion. They cheered and raised their arms in salute as Kink Luth of Uldorn stepped onto a stone dais erected for him.</p>
    <p>“I take over this liberated city, in the name of Uldorn!” he spoke. His voice held emotional overtones that quivered through the giant cavern.</p>
    <p>“My praises to my valiant army, for their splendid efficiency. This marks our first step in the conquest of the degenerate Dorthian state. Our victorious, invincible forces will sweep onward. In capturing this tube-station, we have access to dozen of other city-caverns, which will be taken under our beneficent wing. Soon our army will be hammering at the very heart of the enemy region. Dorthia will be ours and we will rule the universe!”</p>
    <p>Rule the universe! He had used a word that translated that way to Paige, and Paige grinned mirthlessly. Little did King Luth realize that his rock-bound “universe” lay under another world!</p>
    <p>The speech went on, in similar vein. Paige could have written the words for him. Upper world dictators had preceded him. The high-pitched tones worked the crowd into an emotional frenzy. The army would go on in its conquest with renewed faith in their “cause,” whatever nebulous thing it was. Paige didn’t know enough of their language to get that clear, but he knew it wasn’t important. He’d heard something like it before.</p>
    <p>Paige’s mind reviewed its own thoughts. Bitterly he hated King Luth and his program of conquest. If it weren’t for that, the Dorthians might have listened to him and investigated, his story of upper Earth holocaust. As it was, the underworld people would be engaged in this struggle for mastery of the “universe” for years. If ever they did penetrate to the upper world, it would be only to find an alien race of monsters firmly entrenched.</p>
    <p>Paige groaned mentally to himself again. Up above, the human race wiped out. Below, the human race under the control of a dictatorial regime. Cruel fate had dealt a double blow to the race of creatures who had struggled up so agonizingly from the ape.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span>N hour later, his official speech-making over, King Luth looked over his Dorthian prisoners, contemptuously sentencing them to death. Finally he stopped before Paige and Reena.</p>
    <p>Tal saluted him.</p>
    <p>“Ah, yes, Tal Rithor,” nodded the king. “I have been told. For your part in our victory, I hereby appoint you governor of this city!”</p>
    <p>Tal beamed, looking at Paige and Reena. They turned their eyes away in loathing. For this he had sold himself to the enemy. With a malicious grin, Tal pointed to Paige.</p>
    <p>“This is the dark man, sire, who was also mentioned to you.”</p>
    <p>The King of Uldorn turned his pale eyes balefully on Paige.</p>
    <p>“Then you are the one, dark man, who so organized the Dorthians that they held out for senseless hours? It was an added cost to us of thousands of brave soldiers!”</p>
    <p>His glare changed to thoughtfulness. “You must be a military genius. Are you a Dorthian? You have a remarkably dark skin. It does not matter, however. I will offer you leniency. If you reveal to us your strange new method of warfare, you will be absolved from blame for what happened before!”</p>
    <p>Paige straightened his shoulders and shook his head firmly. “I am not a Dorthian. But neither will I lift one finger to help you!”</p>
    <p>The king’s face darkened. “Then I sentence you to banishment above the Fire Zone, in the Heavy Region! You will wander there for days, lost, and finally die of madness!”</p>
    <p>Paige’s heart leaped. Banishment above the Fire Zone! That way led to the upper world! Perhaps, winning his way up again, he might still do something about his mission; try again to have an Earth expedition come down.</p>
    <p>He hastily wiped a faint smile of satisfaction from his face and tried to look properly dismayed.</p>
    <p>Tal Rithor had been watching him narrowly.</p>
    <p>“No, sire!” he interposed quickly. “This dark man came from a cave above the Fire Zone!”</p>
    <p>King Luth looked astonished. “Go on!” he commanded.</p>
    <p>Tal told the story of Paige’s rescue from the lava flows, and also the arrival of Dr. Aronson, months before.</p>
    <p>“Thus these three dark men have come down from some city-cavern above the Fire Zone,” Tal concluded. “I have listened to their stories closely. They describe their cavern in such terms that it must be the largest in existence! Furthermore—”</p>
    <p>He paused and went on tensely. “I have surmised that their cavern may be the key to a quick conquest of Dorthia!”</p>
    <p>King Luth started, no less than Paige and Reena.</p>
    <p>Tal went on slowly.</p>
    <p>“They speak of their cavern being above <i>both</i> Dorthia and Uldorn. If there is a way down to Dorthia, there must be one to Uldorn. If their story is true, that their cavern is a huge one, it must also lie above other sections of Dorthia. Perhaps other passages lead to Dorthian caverns, or can be quickly blasted out. The Uldornian forces could then attack Dorthia in a totally unexpected quarter!”</p>
    <p>Paige gasped.</p>
    <p>The whole thing was ridiculous, nonsensical. To carry out any such plan as Tal’s, an army of Uldornians would have to march way across Earth, searching all other natural caves like Mammoth for possible entrances to the underworld caverns. Dr. Aronson himself suspected that Carlsbad, Yellowstone, and many natural caves in out-of-way places had access to the underworld, if once they were meticulously searched for.</p>
    <p>But it remained that Tal had no conception of the hugeness of the outside world. Obviously, he thought of it simply as a large “cave,” extending perhaps a few dozen miles.</p>
    <p>“Is this true, dark man?” demanded King Luth.</p>
    <p>“Of course not!” scoffed Paige. “It is true that I came from a world above both Dorthia and Uldorn, but you would never find other passages to attack Dorthia.”</p>
    <p>Tal and King Luth exchanged glances.</p>
    <p>The king smiled a slow, knowing smile. “So! Now I am sure there must be such a passage, else you would not be so quick to deny it! You are a bad actor, dark man. You refused to help me before, earning death. I give you another chance. Show us the way to your cavern, and to one other passage to Dorthia, and you will be spared!”</p>
    <p>Paige laughed aloud.</p>
    <p>“I couldn’t if I wanted to!” he retorted. “I could lead an army of yours up there, all right. But it would walk its legs off trying to find another natural cave for a way down. I’d have to walk it from Kentucky to New Mexico, to the Carlsbad Cavern, as a possibility. That’s only about two thousand miles—half-way across all Dorthia! No, King Luth, I can’t help you in that, even assuming I wanted to!”</p>
    <p>Again Tal and the king exchanged glances.</p>
    <p>“He seeks to confuse us,” observed Tal. “He is trying to cover up the fact that his cavern is the way to quick conquest of Dorthia!”</p>
    <p>“You fools!” snapped Paige, humor leaving him. “When I tell you the truth, you don’t believe it. If you’d only believe my story as it is—but, of course, you won’t, any more than the Kal of Dorthia. What’s more, if your army went up there, it would run smack into the Martian forces.”</p>
    <p>Paige stopped, choking. He staggered mentally. They weren’t the fools—he was! He didn’t speak for a minute, his mind churning.</p>
    <p>King Luth, watching him, waved a hand. “You still refuse. Therefore, you must die.”</p>
    <p>“Wait!” Paige took a deep breath. He was trembling. Sweat beaded his forehead. “I don’t want to die!” There was a whine in his voice.</p>
    <p>The king smiled triumphantly at Tal. “He has broken down!” To Paige he said: “Will you show us the way to your cavern world, then?”</p>
    <p>Paige nodded, haggardly.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">R</span>EENA, who had listened silently all the while, darted him a strange, shocked glance. Her eyes seemed to plead with him, but Paige looked away. Then her lips curled. Deliberately, she shrank away from him, with an expression of loathing.</p>
    <p>“Reena!” Paige stammered. “Reena, please! After all, it’s my life. What can I do?”</p>
    <p>To himself Paige was saying: “Make this good! Don’t overplay your hand, but make it good!”</p>
    <p>Out of the corner of his eyes he watched Tal. Somewhat suspicious of the abrupt breakdown on Paige’s part, Tal now grinned in satisfaction. It pleased him that Reena showed the same contempt for Paige that she had shown for Tal.</p>
    <p>Paige turned away from the stony-faced girl, hoping he wasn’t making too melodramatic an air out of it.</p>
    <p>“Listen, then. Here’s how it must be done. My people are numerous, in our cavern above the Fire Zone. We have armed forces, too. It will be best for you to send a large force along with me, to reach another cave-entrance to Dorthia.” King Luth looked perturbed. “You have armed forces? Then perhaps it would gain us little.”</p>
    <p>Paige called forth all the histrionic powers at his command. He looked as relieved as he could.</p>
    <p>“Yes!” he hastened to assure. “You would have to fight my people first. It might gain you nothing. I speak the truth. I want to save my life. I will take your first offer, to show you our military tactics.”</p>
    <p>“Sire!” burst in Tal. “He is trying to dissuade us now from going to his cavern. It must mean he is trying to save his own people. Despite their clever military tactics, they are weakly armed. They used obsolete propulsion-weapons.”</p>
    <p>His eyes lighted. “Another thing! His uniform is a military one. He came down for help, against an enemy. His people are at civil war—divided!”</p>
    <p>Paige looked guilty. He nodded reluctantly. But then he said sharply: “But your armed forces are not strong enough to conquer my people, divided though we are. I tell you, you can’t! You will not easily conquer my people.”</p>
    <p>“<i>Conquer</i> your people!” interrupted King Luth, taking the bait. “Yes, we <i>will</i> conquer your people! Uldorn will add another part of its great kingdom. Obviously, they are weak, by your hesitation, dark man. We will conquer them quickly and then strike at Dorthia. It is my command. You, Tal, and this man will lead an expeditionary regiment to the upper cavern. If by some chance they prove too strong, send word and I will rush reinforcements. If the dark man tries treachery, torture him.”</p>
    <p>“I have a better suggestion,” Tal grinned evilly. “Let us take the girl along, whom he loves. If the dark man attempts to lead us astray, she will be tortured!”</p>
    <p>“Good!” nodded King Luth. “The regiment will start tomorrow.”</p>

    <h4 class="space">VIII</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span>GAIN Evan Paige felt that it was all a strange, incredible dream.</p>
    <p>It was a week after the fall of the city. Behind him marched a regiment of Uldornian soldiers, powerfully armed. On his left and right were Reena and Tal. The girl was silent, drawn-faced, and had hardly spoken a word to either of them in six days. Her contempt for both was equal. One renegade deserved no better than another.</p>
    <p>Tal Rithor strode along eagerly. As commanding officer of the regiment, he stood to gain much in prestige and favor with King Luth, if Paige’s cavern-world were successfully negotiated.</p>
    <p>The way led upward steadily.</p>
    <p>They had passed through the Fire Zone three days before. Again Paige saw why it had placed a natural limit on the expansion of the albino people. It was a hot, tempestuous region of linked caverns, with treacherous lava flows springing out at any unguarded moment. They had lost more than a dozen men, despite caution. And once, by a miracle, the regiment had barely quitted a cavern before a veritable cloudburst of molten, hissing rock dropped down from the ceiling. Had that struck them, the whole regiment would have been wiped out.</p>
    <p>But that was all behind them now. Ahead lay fifty miles of Earth’s crust to penetrate. And they were constantly struggling against gravity, fighting their slow way up. Thus the region had long been known as the Heavy Region, where the peak of gravity existed. The bulk of albino population lived at least a thousand miles below, where gravity was only ¾ of surface gravity.</p>
    <p>Paige followed Aronson’s arrows, in reverse, leading the way.</p>
    <p>Tal looked at him suspiciously at times. “If you are leading us astray, Evan Paige, you’ll regret it. You wouldn’t like to see Reena—” He had then gone into detail, till Paige had to dig his nails in his palms to keep from leaping at the man.</p>
    <p>But within himself, he laughed. For though Tal could not realize it, leading the army astray was the last thing in the world Paige would do. Sometimes Paige himself became a little confused, and wondered how it would all turn out.</p>
    <p>Sweating and toiling their way upward, the army of Uldornian troops were muttering by the tenth day. King Luth had insisted that they take small cannon along, against any surprising power of the dark-skinned people. At times, where the way led over boulders or up steep defiles, the men had to sling the cannon on ropes and drag them up by sheer labor.</p>
    <p>But they were hardy, well-disciplined troops, not easily dismayed by such drawbacks. They were superbly equipped, both in armament and supplies. Where the caverns were dim, lacking both phospherescent plants and radio-active walls, they lighted the way with portable radium-glow searchlights. Well armed, they would be able to set a defense line anywhere and at the very least hold off against vastly superior forces till reinforcements came, were such needed in the venture ahead.</p>
    <p>Paige grinned.</p>
    <p>The venture ahead was going to have an amazing climax! And even Paige was not sure just what sort of climax. Only one thing was certain—that he was at last leading the albino people to the upper world.</p>
    <p>He thrilled at the thought. He was introducing one world to another, neither aware of the other. He was a second Columbus!</p>
    <p>Though all had gone so far as he planned, one thing bothered Paige and made his sleep troubled. It was the girl, and the open way she despised him for what he had done. Paige longed to talk to her, convince her she was wrong, and one day had his chance. Tal had slipped back a few dozen yards, talking to one of his officers.</p>
    <p>Paige called her without moving close to her. It would not do for Tal to know he had spoken to her. She made no answer, staring straight ahead, moving her legs mechanically.</p>
    <p>“Reena, listen to me!” he tried again. “Whatever you think of me, it isn’t true. Do you think I’m deliberately showing the Uldornian army the way to conquer Dorthia?”</p>
    <p>“Well?” she said witheringly, breaking her silence.</p>
    <p>“But I’m not,” Paige returned. “Please trust me. You must believe me. What I’m doing is for the benefit of my people.”</p>
    <p>Her voice came back wearily. “I only know that this regiment can bring no good to my people!”</p>
    <p>“Reena, you don’t understand—” Paige began, but at that moment Tal returned, and Paige subsided. He stole a glance at the girl, for a sign that she might still trust him, but saw none.</p>
    <p>Within himself, Paige alternately cursed her and forgave her. He could see her viewpoint, knowing no more of the outer world than the others.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>WO weeks after they had left their base, Paige drew a deep breath.</p>
    <p>He was leading the way now across a cavern decorated by the ages with familiar stalactites and stalagmites. It was the cavern directly in back of Mammoth Cave proper. Another few miles...</p>
    <p>When they reached the narrow tunnel through which Paige and Sparky, and Aronson before them, had scarcely squeezed through, Paige called a halt.</p>
    <p>“This narrow tunnel,” he informed Tal, “is the only entrance to my cavern in this vicinity. It would take too long for each man to wiggle through. Have a cannon blast a larger passage.”</p>
    <p>Tal complied, after sending a man through and back. The albino cannoneers, past masters in the art of fashioning rock-bound tunnels, expertly hollowed out a large corridor. Their cannon’s blasts peeled the walls down rapidly. Within the smooth fissure down which Paige and Sparky had slid, they blasted a sloping path through to the cave floor. And the regiment marched up into the back portions of Mammoth Cave.</p>
    <p>“This is your cavern?” Tal queried.</p>
    <p>“The beginning of it,” Paige nodded. “Further on, there is a wide portal, leading into the main part of my cavern-world. Come on.”</p>
    <p>Tal was cautious. “I will send a man ahead first. Your forces might be lurking to trap us.”</p>
    <p>A scout was sent, following the arrows, and came back reporting he had seen the portal, but no sign of enemy forces. He had a sort of shocked look in his eyes, and was shivering.</p>
    <p>“I looked out of the portal,” he said. “It was strange. There were many little pinpoints of light in the roof of the cave beyond. Also a cold wind blew in.”</p>
    <p>And as they marched to the mouth of Mammoth Cave, after a sleeping period, Evan Paige grew to wonder what reaction the full sight of his world would have on these buried people.</p>
    <p>From now on, he told himself, anything might happen! He had played with fate. How would fate now play with him?</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEY reached the cave-mouth when it was again night in the outside world. Paige strained forward eagerly, for the last hundred yards, though Tal’s gruff voice warned him not to attempt to escape.</p>
    <p>Finally he stood looking out into the night sky, his first glimpse of open air for more than a month. He stood drinking in the fresh night breezes. It was July and the summer stars beamed down like fiery beacons. He felt much as if he had been resurrected from a grave.</p>
    <p>He turned.</p>
    <p>What was the effect on the albino people, who had never in all their lives seen the sky, or stars? They were looking out in puzzled astonishment. They were all shivering from the breeze, knowing little of circulating air in their protected world.</p>
    <p>“What a strange cavern!” muttered Tal, his face slowly turning to take in the night view. “It must be truly huge. The roof appears very high. But what are all those flashing lights?”</p>
    <p>“Stars!” murmured Paige in his own language, since they had no such word. “Blessed stars! And that roof is a little higher than you think!”</p>
    <p>A gasp came suddenly from Reena. She pointed a trembling hand. “Look! That great light—it is moving up! What can that be?”</p>
    <p>All the albino people watched in shocked amazement, as the full moon slowly bulked over the horizon. Its light, though pale and soft, was almost as bright as the radium-glow lamps the albino people used.</p>
    <p>“That is unique,” commented Tal. “Your people are rather clever, Evan Paige. They move a huge radium-glow lamp across the roof. But on second thought, it’s rather ridiculous. If this is the end of the sleeping period, why don’t they have it overhead and simply turn it on?”</p>
    <p>“We have our reasons,” said Paige, the corners of his lips twitching. He went on curiously. “How far away does that light look to you, Tal?”</p>
    <p>“Well, perhaps ten <i>lengths</i>,” Tal estimated. A <i>length</i> was the length of a certain cavern used as a standard in the underworld; approximately a mile. He shook his head. “No. I must admit this is a huge cavern. Twenty <i>lengths!</i>”</p>
    <p>He said it reluctantly, as though he had betrayed his people’s pride.</p>
    <p>Some of the albino men in back gasped, at that bold and stupendous estimate. Paige laughed silently. The moon was twenty miles away! He realized something now. The albino people’s eyes, never focusing on distances more than a few miles in their restricted world, had no mental equipment with which to judge distances beyond a few miles. To them, the “roof” actually was twenty miles away, and no more! Paige watched Reena’s face mostly. A strange succession of emotions had flitted across her alabaster-white features. First amazement, wonder, even a little fear, but finally something softer.</p>
    <p>“It’s beautiful, in a way,” she murmured. “It’s almost like something I’ve dreamed at times. And it’s beautiful!”</p>
    <p>She was swallowing, her eyes misting slightly.</p>
    <p>And Paige knew, from that, that though the albino race had not known the surface world for an age, their primary memory still loved it. The ancestors common to both races had known these things for longer ages before. Life did not forget, though the individual might.</p>
    <p>He pitied the albino people at that moment. They had been withheld from their birth-right.</p>

    <h4 class="space">IX</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE regiment pitched camp at the mouth of the cave, for its regular sleep period.</p>
    <p>At dawn, Paige was up. He wanted to see the sunrise. As the first rose rays stole into the air, the sentries began to get nervous. They watched in growing wonder as the light became stronger and stronger. When they caught a glimpse of the sun, behind a bank of thick clouds, they shouted in alarm.</p>
    <p>The army woke to pandemonium. Albino men jumped up, rubbed sleepy eyes, and then shielded them from the light pouring in from outside. Light that was dozens of times stronger than their brightest radium-glow lamps.</p>
    <p>Tal sprang up, shouting orders. In quicker time than it ever had before, the regiment broke camp—and retreated! They retreated back into the cave, where shadows cut down most of the blinding daylight glare. There they stopped, and reorganized themselves. It had been close to a panic.</p>
    <p>Paige had watched with amusement. He stood in the direct rays, letting the warm, pleasant sunshine tingle on his skin. He was pale from his confinement underground. The deep tan he had once had was faded.</p>
    <p>Reena, too, had stayed behind.</p>
    <p>She stood tensely, watching Paige as though ready to bolt when he did. But again he saw in her eyes a queer growing wonder and joy, as though she were seeing a dream unfold exactly as some dim racial memory told her it would. Her eyes, bluish now in the sunlight, watered as the unaccustomed radiation bathed them. But blinking bravely, she was staring out at the wide sweep of rolling mead-owland, lush and green and beautiful.</p>
    <p>“Evan!” she whispered. “It seems to go on and on, till my sight blurs! On and on—” She swayed suddenly, as though perched on some tremendous peak.</p>
    <p>Paige caught her. He held her for a moment, and it was more than the sun that pumped heated blood through his veins. He started, then, peering closely at her.</p>
    <p>The white skin of her face, hands and lower legs, exposed to the sun, had turned a fiery red. With a cry, he pulled her back into the shadow of an upright stone block. A few more minutes and her unpigmented skin might have had a bad burn! As it was, she was as red as a lobster.</p>
    <p>Tal came running up. Glancing curiously at the girl, he clutched Paige’s arm, as if to prevent his escape.</p>
    <p>“I’d almost forgotten you,” he panted. “But I should have known you wouldn’t try to escape. Something has happened out there in your cavern. Your people are doomed! It is on fire!”</p>
    <p>“No,” Paige smiled in amusement at Tal’s statement.</p>
    <p>After thinking a moment, he went on. “My people have devised a great, bright lamp that is swung across the roof, just as the dimmer lamp was last night. My people find this light better to see by, and have become used to its effects on the skin. Your men can also endure it, soon, by letting their skins become dark, like mine. But it must be done carefully, a few minutes at a time, over a period of days, otherwise you will have serious burns.”</p>
    <p>Tal shook his head dazedly. “This is a queer enough cavern. But we will have to do it. Then we’ll reconnoiter out and see what forces oppose us.”</p>
    <p>His eyes were suddenly on Paige, suspiciously.</p>
    <p>“You didn’t attempt to run away, though you had a perfect chance! And now you are warning us against the burn from this great lamp, when you could have let us go out and be burned! What game are you playing, Evan Paige? You would not thus easily help us against your own people.”</p>
    <p>“Don’t forget there is Reena,” countered Paige. “I didn’t want her to suffer revenge meant for me.”</p>
    <p>The girl darted him a puzzled glance.</p>
    <p>Tal looked from one to the other, clouds of doubt still hovering over his features. “I’m going to keep close watch on you, Paige,” he growled. “You won’t trick me.”</p>
    <p>He waved his hand-pistol, for Paige to return to their camp.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">S</span>HRUGGING, Paige turned, thinking deeply. The ice was thin. He could not play this subtle game much longer. And yet the cards had to be played in the right order.</p>
    <p>His whole body jerked suddenly. A low hissing sounded from outside the cave-mouth, from the sky. Alert to all new things in this strange cavern-world, Tal switched around, peering up. His mouth fell open. A wide-winged, sleek airplane soared high overhead.</p>
    <p>It was the first manifestation of the outer civilization, and to Tal it was an unbelievable phenomenon.</p>
    <p>“What is that?” he cried. “How can that machine ride off the ground?”</p>
    <p>“It’s a machine that—” began Paige, then stopped.</p>
    <p>There were no words to explain what he meant, in their language. He would have to say “flies like a bird” in English. Tal and the albino people had never seen a bird. They did not exist in the subterranean world. And they had no single word that meant “flying.”</p>
    <p>Paige saw the mental shell-shock in Tal’s face. Hastily he said: “It is simple enough, Tal. We have a region, in the air, that is without gravity, just as your Center is. Machines float up there quite naturally. Is there anything strange about that?”</p>
    <p>Paige waited to see the effect, wondering if his tissue of lies would hold together.</p>
    <p>Tal nodded rather sheepishly, his tensed body relaxing. “Your people have strange things. Do they,” he asked shrewdly, “arm those floating machines and use them in warfare?”</p>
    <p>Paige nodded, putting a gleam in his eye for Tal’s benefit.</p>
    <p>He went on truthfully. “Yes, and they are powerful fighting craft. They rain down rays and bombs, sweeping whole armies to destruction.”</p>
    <p>“Enough!” cut in Tal, smiling. “I know when you lie, Paige! You’re trying to frighten me, hoping I’ll give up this campaign! But no—we’ll sweep out into your cavern, when we have become adjusted to the burning light. Your clumsy tongue won’t dissuade me from glory and conquest. You tremble, I see. But come, there is much to do.”</p>
    <p>Paige was trembling. But for a different reason than Tal suspected. The plane, now gone, had been a Martian craft, upheld by its miraculous hissing rocket jets. A patrol ship, probably, scouting over conquered territory for possible human survivors.</p>
    <p>The sight of the ship brought sharp remembrance to Paige, like a knife thrust. The adventures in the underworld had dulled his mind partly to the upper world catastrophe, but now the full, agonizing, unbearable thought of it reared.</p>
    <p>He saw something else, about a mile away, on a broad field. A strewn line of little khaki mounds, broken silent field-pieces, and gouged-out craters of torn ground. A battle had been fought then, perhaps just a few days ago. A regiment of Earth soldiers annihilated. Several wrecks, of Earth planes, indicated how easily the Martians had won.</p>
    <p>How far had the Martians advanced? Had the American army been driven back to the Rockies perhaps, while he had been below? Was Europe a vast graveyard of humans? Were the defenseless millions of China falling like chaff before the Martian juggernaut?</p>
    <p>For all Paige knew, the Martians had broken all military resistance, and were now systematically running a vacuum-cleaner of death over Earth’s face!</p>
    <p>“Good Lord!” he groaned aloud at that thought. If only he knew. But he had no radio, no way of finding out at present. There was a plane there, a mile away, that looked unwrecked. Perhaps its pilot had been able to land it just before dying of wounds. Paige almost leaped away, burning to find out about his world, but eased back with another groan. Tal would shoot him if he ran.</p>
    <p>Tal leered at him, hearing the groan. “There is no help for it, Evan Paige,” he said vigorously. “I will conquer your people!”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span> WEEK later, the regiment performed drills in the open space beyond the mouth of Mammoth Cave, under the hot sun. With Paige’s apparently reluctant guidance, Tal had conditioned the men to the new climate. Daily they had gone out into the sun, for short periods of time, acquiring a steady “tan.” Their white, unpigmented skin turned a rich red, as with Scandinavians who went to warmer climates.</p>
    <p>Active, hardy men, they were quickly becoming acclimated to extremes of heat and cold unknown in their sheltered world. The blowing of even the gentlest wind was to them a source of wonder.</p>
    <p>Tal, watching the drill, turned to Paige. “Look how energetic the men are. Somehow, these strange conditions are invigorating!” He drew a deep lungful of air. “In a way, Evan Paige,” he admitted thoughtfully, “your cavern is a desirable place to live in!”</p>
    <p>Paige felt almost friendly toward the man, at this. As with Reena, a heritage of instinctive memory must be whispering to him. It told him that this was the world man was meant to live in, not the sunless depths below.</p>
    <p>Yes, man’s world—but for how long? How near was the end of mankind’s reign, usurped by the Martian invaders? The thought chilled Paige to the marrow.</p>
    <p>“I have been looking at the blue rock of the roof often.” It was Reena speaking, her voice awed. “Sometimes I have the feeling that nothing is there at all!”</p>
    <p>Paige looked at her. Though she was unrelenting in her attitude toward him, she was changed. She had become vital, alive, thrillingly lovely. With her carmine-tinted face, framed by ash-blonde hair, she was like some rare, exotic blossom.</p>
    <p>Tal’s eyes involuntarily turned upward, also, to the mystery of the sky, with a look close to fear. “Yes, at times I wonder, too.”</p>
    <p>“How foolish!” It was Paige himself who scoffed. It was not time for them to know. “The bright light my people use gives the illusion of emptiness. The roof is there.”</p>
    <p>“Of course!” agreed Tal, shaking his head in self-reprovement. “There must be a roof. It wouldn’t be possible to conceive of its absence.”</p>
    <p>One more phenomenon Paige had to explain away—rain. Swift clouds came up, precipitating a brief but thorough downpour. A mere summer shower, but to the albino people, watching from the shelter of the cave, it was stark novelty. They knew water, but only in trickles that seeped down from the ocean bottoms, down into their isolated catacombs. What was this incredible dropping of lakefuls of water from the roof?</p>
    <p>“My people use this method of watering their crops,” Paige lied magnificently. “It is easy to transport water into the gravityless region above and then propel it downward.”</p>
    <p>Lightning and thunder, accompanying the shower, still more amazed the albino people. And it brought something of fear.</p>
    <p>“A distant battle, in our war,” Paige improvised.</p>
    <p>Tal pondered. “More and more I begin to wonder what manner of science your people use—”</p>
    <p>“We are great scientists!” interposed Paige instantly. “You have seen the great lights we use, the flying machines, those thunders and flashes of our weapons, and how we handle large quantities of water. We have a great science!”</p>
    <p>Tal automatically gave a cynical leer.</p>
    <p>“I see it clearly now, Paige. You’ve been trying to impress me with your people’s greatness. You wish me to withdraw! But I’m more determined than ever to go on. My plans are careful. I’ve sent a messenger back to King Luth, telling him of what we have found, and to hold reinforcements ready at a moment’s notice. In the meantime—”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE’S ears caught a low sound throbbing from the sky. He interrupted Tal. “I tell you my people are powerful! Their air machines will come and blast you to dust.”</p>
    <p>The hissing drone became louder. They all heard it. Another rocketplane sailed grandly into view, overhead.</p>
    <p>“Blast us, eh?” grunted Tal. “We’ll see.”</p>
    <p>He whirled, shouting orders. His men obeyed, dragging forward their cannon. Lightly mounted on smoothly swiveled bearings, the tubes could be pointed in any direction swiftly.</p>
    <p>“Don’t!” Paige yelled, though within himself he exulted. He had played the cards right!</p>
    <p>The cannon began to <i>whoosh</i> softly, as their bolts of atom-compressing force stabbed invisibly into the sky. The Martian ship was about 2,000 feet high, easily within range. But the Uldornian gunners, unused to such a fast-moving target, aimed far behind.</p>
    <p>Paige held his breath. Would the chance pass? Would the ship escape?</p>
    <p>But the Martian ship sealed its own doom. It slowed down and circled, obviously interested in the human figures below. They heard no cannon-roars, as with Earthly artillery, and so were unaware of being shot at.</p>
    <p>The Uldornian gunners took better aim. Quite abruptly one wing of the ship crumpled. The craft flopped, burst into flame. It streaked down like a blazing comet to land with a sodden crash a thousand yards away. Its fiercely burning fuel formed a pyre out of which no creature could escape alive.</p>
    <p>A hush came over the albino men. Then Tal waved triumphantly and a cheer of victory welled from his regiment.</p>
    <p>“Thus we deal with your vaunted floating machines of war!” Tal crowed.</p>
    <p>Paige stared at the burned Martian wreck. His spirits sang. All had worked out as he had planned.</p>
    <p><i>The albino army had struck—not at his people—but at the Martians!</i></p>
    <p>The Martians would retaliate, when another patrol ship searched for the missing one. Coming in force then, they might wipe out the regiment very quickly. But in the face of defeat, Tal would send a message below. The news would sweep through the underworld. King Luth would not lightly forget the annihilated regiment. He would send up stronger forces.</p>
    <p>That had been Paige’s grand plan, from the start. To pit two powerful forces against one another. King Luth’s vast army of conquest, and the ruthless Martians. But would it work? It must, Paige told himself.</p>
    <p><i>It must!</i></p>

    <h4 class="space">X</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">H</span>E was still staring at the wreck, thinking these world-moving thoughts, when dusk settled. The Uldornian regiment had made camp in the open air, outside Mammpth Cave, for the first time.</p>
    <p>Tal Rithor sidled up to Paige, rubbing his hands.</p>
    <p>“I will send out scouting parties tomorrow,” he informed. “When we have learned where your people’s forces lie, we’ll attack. I don’t care which side, in your war, they are on. I’ll conquer them both!”</p>
    <p>Tal radiated supreme confidence that he felt since bringing down the amazing “floating machine” so easily. Paige was glad it was dark, hiding the sardonic smik on his lips. If he hadn’t missed his guess, Tal would have a fight on his hands by the next day. The Martians would investigate the lost patrol ship, spy the camp of humans, and attack!</p>
    <p>His spine prickled suddenly, as a shout of alarm rose from one side of the camp Paige whirled. Had the Martians arrived already? Yet he had heard no sound of aircraft.</p>
    <p>A sentry came running up, face working. “The enemy, sir!” he reported to Tal. “They are at the mouth of the cave!”</p>
    <p>“The enemy,” snapped Tal. “Who?”</p>
    <p>“Dorthians!”</p>
    <p>Tal was already running toward his camp’s edge nearest the mouth of Mammoth Cave. With a startled gasp, Paige followed. They halted a hundred yards from the cave-mouth. The gibbous moon, rising, shed light upon uniformed figures, gun in hand, staring out, obviously surprised themselves.</p>
    <p>“Dorthian troops!” confirmed Tal, breathing heavily. “How did they get here?”</p>
    <p>He stared at Paige, suspicion crawling in his pale eyes.</p>
    <p>Paige stood stunned, asking himself the same question. Then he made out the stocky figure without a uniform, standing with arms outstretched, head high, like a man viewing a heaven he had been absent from. Dr. Aronson! He was seeing the upper world again, after long months of sojourn beneath. Little wonder, Paige reflected, that he stood as if bewitched. Beside him was Sparky, also staring around raptly, swaying a little on his game leg.</p>
    <p>“Aronson! Sparky!” Paige called.</p>
    <p>The scientist started, peered out and then ran in his direction.</p>
    <p>“Halt!” yelled Tal. Behind him, his under officers had already aroused the regiment into watchful readiness. “Surrender your troops, in the name of King Luth, or we will fire!”</p>
    <p>Aronson’s flying figure did not hesitate. Tal seemed about to give the battle signal. Paige gripped his arm fiercely. “You can’t shoot a defenseless man! He has no weapons. He wants to talk with us.”</p>
    <p>Tal hesitated, then gave low commands. His men stood watchfully, but did not fire. Aronson came up pantingly, and almost fell in Paige’s arms.</p>
    <p>“I can’t believe it’s you, Dr. Aronson!” Paige said, his thoughts confused. “And Dorthian troops with you! How did you convince the Kal of Dorthia.”</p>
    <p>The scientist spoke between gulps of his lungs.</p>
    <p>“Sparky did it When the news of Uldorn’s first major victory came through, Sparky worked on him. The Kal was worried. Sparky told him this cavern-world extended over parts of Uldorn, which he could counter-attack. He didn’t try to say any more about what this ‘cavern’ really is, or our strange story of Martian invasion. He simply appealed to the Kal’s practical side, that from here he might find a way to invade Uldorn and stave off what looked like the eventual downfall of Dorthia. The Kal finally agreed to send up an expeditionary regiment.”</p>
    <p>He stopped, panting for breath.</p>
    <p>“Exactly how I worked on King Luth!” Paige went on briefly, explaining his part. “Good work you and Sparky did,” he finished. “We got the albino people out here after all, into this world they positively wouldn’t believe in! And now, we have some real work ahead of us.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">H</span>E went on, telling of the Martian ship shot down, and the eventuality of Martian attack. Tal’s face was suddenly before him, dark with rage. He had listened closely as they spoke in English. Paige suddenly realized he might have understood.</p>
    <p>He had—in distorted fashion. “Treachery!” he spat out. “You two planned this. One of you to lure an Uldornian regiment into your cavern, the other a Dorthian regiment, to fall upon us. And then <i>your</i> forces—the ‘Martians’ you call them—are to join with Dorthia in invading Uldorn!”</p>
    <p>He glared accusingly at them. Neither Paige nor Aronson could think of anything to say that would sound sensible. Tal’s face worked dangerously. “But I’ll show you how you have underestimated me. I’ll wipe out the Dorthians and then deal with your forces!”</p>
    <p>Whirling, he screamed out the order to begin battle. Then he turned back, directing his aides to chain Paige and Aronson to a great boulder, out of range of the battle zone. Reena was brought up a moment later, and chained. Tal eyed the three of them.</p>
    <p>“When we have won, I’ll deal with you. If we should happen to face defeat, our last shots will take you with us!”</p>
    <p>He dashed away, to direct the struggle. Paige looked at the girl. In the glow of moonlight, she was a picture of loveliness. Her eyes were on him, not hostile now, but in complete understanding.</p>
    <p>“Forgive me, Evan!” she murmured. “I see now what you planned. The presence of the Dorthian troops here shows your good intention, however it turned out. You had hoped the Dorthian troops would get here first, to strike at Uldorn?”</p>
    <p>Paige shook his head, groaning.</p>
    <p>“No. My plans are all shattered. I had hoped to pit Tal against the Martians. Now, instead, the Dorthians and Uldornians will decimate each other. When the Martians come, they will find little opposition. Don’t you understand, Reena, it’s the Martians who are to be feared! They come from another world, beyond the roof.”</p>
    <p>Paige stopped. How could he explain this to the girl who still thought of Earth’s surface as a huge cave, with a roof? The conception of another planet, hanging in space millions of miles away, could have no meaning to her. So he thought.</p>
    <p>She was staring at him thoughtfully. “There is no—no roof?” she queried slowly.</p>
    <p>Paige glanced at her hopefully. “None at all. Space goes on forever.”</p>
    <p>She took a deep, shuddering breath, as though assimilating that fact, once and for all. It was not less in degree than a person of upper Earth having suddenly to believe that the sky was a roof.</p>
    <p>“And these Martians you speak of—they come from another world, far away? From up there, many times farther than the greatest distance in Dorthia?”</p>
    <p>Paige pointed to the fiery red speck of Mars, following the moon. “From there they have come.”</p>
    <p>“They are not human?” she whispered.</p>
    <p>“They are monsters; ruthless beings who are killing off my people relentlessly.” He watched the girl. What effect was it having on her, if she believed?</p>
    <p>She believed, now. He could see that in the dread and horror that darkened her eyes.</p>
    <p>“My people,” she said suddenly, “should help your people, Dorthians and Uldornians alike!”</p>
    <p>Paige choked. If this girl’s reaction were only a symbol, a token, of how all the albino people might react, if they once knew and understood! But then he turned bitter, defeated eyes on the battle raging.</p>
    <p>“Your civilization fights a civil war,” he groaned, “while mine goes under!”</p>

    <h4 class="space">XI</h4>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEY watched the battle.</p>
    <p>It was fought under the dim light of the moon. But to the albino people, it was natural, like the battles fought underground in their sunless labyrinths.</p>
    <p>Tal had deployed his men in a wide circle facing the cave mouth. Steady fire poured in, and steady fire returned. The Uldornians were at a tactical disadvantage. But on the other hand, Tal had remembered the advanced military maneuvers Paige had employed below. Sparky was commanding a regiment of Dorthians who probably misunderstood most of his orders, new to them.</p>
    <p>A secret company of Uldornians crept to the side of the cave-mouth, and attacked. When the Dorthians blindly flocked to resist, a second flanking group fell on their side.</p>
    <p>The battle raged on, while the moon slowly climbed the zenith. Paige foresaw already that, all else being equal, one or the other side would win by a slim margin, depending on luck. He ground his teeth helplessly, at the thought of human beings, albino or not, killing one another off, in the very world where an alien power wanted just that.</p>
    <p>“Aronson,” he muttered, “I guess we’ve failed.”</p>
    <p>“Hsst!”</p>
    <p>It was a low warning from back of them, in the shadow of the boulder they were chained to. The crouching form of Sparky crept close, one eye cautiously on the guard who stood with back turned, watching the battle.</p>
    <p>“Sparky!” breathed Paige. “How—”</p>
    <p>“Hi, Sarge,” whispered Sparky, pressing his hand. His mouth twisted a little. “Deserted again—the Dorthians. Wanted to find you. Figure out something. This fight is crazy. We should be blasting at the Martians!”</p>
    <p>“Yes,” Paige said brokenly. “After all my planning, and yours, we run up against this stupid, blind, senseless stone wall. The underworld people fight below, and now above, too. And the Martians, meanwhile, take over Earth!”</p>
    <p>Sparky’s face twisted convulsively. “Lord! How I’d like to get one more lick at the Martians!”</p>
    <p>Paige laughed a little wildly, bitterly. “You can, maybe. I think there’s an undamaged Earth plane, a mile away.” He dismissed the thought. “But Sparky, can you free us?”</p>
    <p>Sparky was already aiming his Dorthian blast-pistol at a portion of the chain that held Reena. Three bolts and the chain clinked apart. Reena stood free.</p>
    <p>“Hurry!” whispered Paige.</p>
    <p>Sparky sent two bolts at Aronson’s chain. The guard turned, finally hearing. With a shout of alarm he ran forward, pistol upraised.</p>
    <p>“Got to do it,” muttered Sparky, aiming at him.</p>
    <p>But there was only a dull click from his weapon. “Used my shots!” he cried. “And I have no more charge-clips. Sarge, I’ve got to go. I’m deserting again.”</p>
    <p>With that Sparky scuttled away as fast as he could, with his limp. The guard fired several times into the darkness beyond the boulder, then gave up and turned back. Reena, though free, had not left, her hand on Paige’s arm.</p>
    <p>She was sharing his fate, but Paige said nothing. What did it mean now? Tal would win, take them below, and warn King Luth against the campaign in the upper world, convinced now that Paige had planned a trap.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">P</span>AIGE cursed, and looked up at the garnet speck of Mars, that seemed like a mocking red eye. Faintly, through the roar of battle, he heard a low drone from the opposite direction. The beating of a propeller, lifting an Earth plane into the air. Sparky had found the plane intact. He was off to have his last lick at the Martians. He would not let mocking fate make him a deserter of duty a fourth time.</p>
    <p>Paige reviled fate, and wished he were with Sparky.</p>
    <p>The red eye of Mars glared down gloatingly on the battle. Slowly Tal was winning out, driving the Dorthians back into the cave-mouth where he would gain strategic positions and cut them to pieces.</p>
    <p>“Dr. Aronson,” Paige said again, “we’ve failed.”</p>
    <p>A low hissing drone snaked through the upper air.</p>
    <p>Paige started, ears alert. Was it the drone of a propeller, or the throbbing beat of rocket jets?</p>
    <p><i>It was both!</i></p>
    <p>An Earth plane streaked across the moon’s face. Hounding after it drummed a fleet of seven Martian ships, rocket jets flaming brilliantly. The lone Earth ship shot up suddenly, in a power-climb. Daringly, madly, it swooped over the Martian ships, raking them with machine-gun fire. A wasp against seven deadly eagles. One Martian ship swung out of line wobbled, and then flopped Earthward in flames.</p>
    <p>Again the Earth plane swooped, guns chattering. Another Martian ship plummeted down like a comet. Paige stared in disbelief. It was the most amazing exhibition of flying and fighting he had ever thought possible. Who could that wizard flyer be?</p>
    <p>A gasp tore from Paige’s throat.</p>
    <p>“Sparky!” he screamed. “Give ’em hell, Sparky!”</p>
    <p>It was all clear now. Sparky had flown to the nearest Martian base, probably at Cincinnati. Charged down from the sky speaking a challenge with bullets. The Martian fleet had given chase. By some miracle, Sparky had outflown the superior Martian craft, led them here.</p>
    <p>“Give ’em hell, Sparky!” Paige shrieked again.</p>
    <p>But the end was inevitable. The Martian ships spread, darted at him from all angles. Three Martian neutron-beams struck at the same time. The little Earth ship changed into a riddled, broken bit of debris that rained to the ground.</p>
    <p>“That was Sparky?” gasped Aronson, horrified. “He’s dead.”</p>
    <p>“Yes, but he died happy,” Paige said. “He got in his last lick at the Martians.”</p>
    <p>“Brave little man,” murmured Reena. “But why did he do it?”</p>
    <p>Paige knew why. His eyes glowed in anticipation.</p>
    <p>Now the remaining five Martian ships circled, observing. Then suddenly a singing, iridescent beam stabbed down. Where it struck, a geyser of dirt and rock shot up. The beam ran along the edge of the Uldornian forces, plowing a furrow of destruction. It seemed like a warning, to discontinue whatever was being done below.</p>
    <p>The battle between the albino forces died. Amazed at what the unknown third power had done, a temporary truce sprang into being. One of the Martian ships spiraled lower and landed, a hundred yards back of the Uldornians.</p>
    <p>Paige trembled. For this Sparky had given his life. To bring the Martians here quickly, while they were still pondering the absence of the missing patrol ship. And before the albino battle had ended all chance of Martian interference.</p>
    <p>Tal came running up from the battle-front, pausing beside Paige. They all watched as the cabin of the strange craft opened and figures emerged. They strode forward, a dozen forms with glinting weapons in their hands.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span>S they drew near, the moonlight revealed them clearly. A concerted gasp arose from the throats of Tal and all the albino men who could see. Even Dr. Aronson gulped, for he had never seen the Martians before.</p>
    <p>They were tall, thick-chested, thin-legged, built in the travesty of man. They were ridiculously like old men who had not exercised properly. But their faces inspired horror. They were not human, by any stretch of imagination. Large eyes with red irises, flat bestial noses, and lips from which protruded fang-like teeth, topped by a feathery wool of dank green hair. Evolution had given them a large brain-case, larger than man’s, but something had placed the stamp of utter pitilessness in their features. They carried with them, as they neared, an aura of merciless cruelty.</p>
    <p>Paige shuddered, as well as the others, though the sight of these other-worldly creatures was nothing new to him.</p>
    <p>The foremost Martian spoke, in a piping, precise English.</p>
    <p>“You destroyed our patrol ship, this afternoon. You sent one of your own ships to raid our nearest base. Like other groups of earthlings, you have come down from the hills, most likely, and are armed. You have been hidden back there practicing battle tactics. You bravely but foolishly think of fighting against us to the last?”</p>
    <p>It was a question. Paige thought rapidly. Whispering swiftly to Aronson to translate for the benefit of the albino men, he answered the Martian commander.</p>
    <p>“Yes. What else would you have us do?”</p>
    <p>The Martian made a magnanimous gesture.</p>
    <p>“A few weeks ago we would have exterminated you without wasting time talking first. But our High Command has instituted a new order. All humans left are given the choice, if they surrender, to become slaves!”</p>
    <p>Paige gave the air of one considering the offer. Back of him the albino men were utterly silent, hushed. Then Paige asked another question.</p>
    <p>“We have been isolated from the rest of Earth. How many humans are left?”</p>
    <p>It tore his soul to bring it out, but he had to know. And he wanted the albino men to hear.</p>
    <p>“About one-half of the former Earth population,” returned the Martian expressionlessly. “We have killed off a billion of you humans. The remaining we offer life, as our slaves.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>AL and the nearby albino men stood stunned, as Aronson’s whispered translation came to them. The whisper grew and rustled through all the ranks behind. It leaped the gap between the Uldornian and Dorthian forces, those that had lately been about to engage in hand-to-hand struggle.</p>
    <p>A billion humans destroyed!</p>
    <p>The crushing revelation seemed to sweep over the scene like a living force.</p>
    <p>“Is there any resistance in other parts of Earth?” Paige pursued.</p>
    <p>The Martian answered without hesitation, with the air of one who does not need to hide anything.</p>
    <p>“Yes, in various sectors, your people hold out. It is almost admirable. But stupid. They are doomed. West of your Rockies, fifty million people battle us. We are daily bombing all their cities and pushing back their armies.”</p>
    <p>He made a sharp gesture. “That is all. What is your decision?”</p>
    <p>The answer did not come from Evan Paige. It came from Tal Rithor.</p>
    <p>He had been standing like a statue, nostrils flaring, his breath coming in short, hard gasps. Deliberately, his arm flung up and then down.</p>
    <p>The battle signal!</p>
    <p>Almost in one volley, the weapons of the albino men spoke, as though only willpower had kept them before from shooting down the repulsive monsters at first sight. The attack was totally unexpected, to the confident Martians. Six of them fell corpses. The other six fired back, with their rustling kill-beams. In another moment they, too, fell dead.</p>
    <p>Retaliation came instantly, from above. Broad beams of explosive neutrons hurtled down, cutting swaths of death among the albino men.</p>
    <p>Paige leaned back against the rock, sick. He thought it was all over. But Tal was leaping back and forth, yelling commands. Cannon swiveled into the sky. A weapon spoke back at least the equal of the Martians’. The enemy, not given to night fighting, were aiming blind. The albino men, in their element under dim radiation, found their marks.</p>
    <p>Four of the Martian ships crashed down in flames. One drummed away, to call for stronger forces. Soon a mighty fleet would wing back, to wipe out the defiant band of humans at the mouth of Mammoth Cave!</p>
    <p>Paige imparted that knowledge to Tal. And he went on, explaining the truth of what Earth’s upper surface was. If Reena had finally understood, he must, too.</p>
    <p>Tal stood listening.</p>
    <p>The dawn of understanding came into his eyes. He said nothing. Quietly he came forward and struck off their chains himself. A vast hush had come over the albino men. Tal strode toward the mouth of Mammoth Cave, toward the Dorthian forces. Halfway there he stopped, threw down his weapons. Then he spoke, his voice ringing through the still night air.</p>
    <p>“Soldiers of Dorthia and Uldorn! We can no longer fight each other. This is a strange, new world up here—one we didn’t know existed, inhabited by another part of the human race. But it <i>belongs</i> to the human race; not to monsters from another world! Where or what that other world is or can be, I’m not yet sure. I only know that people like us are threatened with extinction, up here. I will speak now for King Luth and say that all the army and forces of Uldorn pledge themselves to fight the alien invaders!”</p>
    <p>As though it had been rehearsed, the Dorthian commander came forward, throwing his arms at Tal’s feet.</p>
    <p>“I say the same in behalf of the Kal of Dorthia!”</p>
    <p>And the cheer that rose from all the men’s throaths was hurled out in defiance to the unspeakable enemy from another world.</p>
    <p>Paige knew that the greatest moment in the history of the human race was enacting itself.</p>
    <p>A buried portion of mankind grown great and strong, would take up the crusade. Would fight for a world they had never seen before, but which was theirs by heritage. Already, like on echo from the future, Paige could hear the tramp, tramp, tramp of marching feet, as the legions from below came into the light of the sun.</p>
    <p>An army millions upon millions strong would arise out of the depths to confront and drive back the Martians who thought their bloody task done. The Martians would sneer at first, as they wiped out the first few regiments, till the albino army learned of the new conditions and warfare.</p>
    <p><i>Tramp, tramp, tramp!</i></p>
    <p>The Earth itself would shake with their heavy tread, as her sons from below stormed up, to win back a world.</p>
    <p>Tramp, tramp, tramp!</p>
    <p>And leading this army of revenge from below would be the ghost of Sparky Donovan. He had deserted again—deserted life. But in death itself he would be getting in his lick at the Martians again.</p>
    <p>Tal Rithor now stood before Paige and Reena, in each other’s arms, and he smiled wanly, but sincerely. This was a new Tal, who had crawled out of the shell of the old. The Tal who had viewed the upper world and knew that it was good.</p>
    <p>“You two will be a token, in marriage, of the union of mankind above and below,” he said.</p>
    <p>He added simply, “We will win.”</p>
    <p>“We will win,” agreed Evan Paige.</p>
</body>

</html>