<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1 class="flash">PS’s Feature Flash</h1>

    <p class="blurb"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>LASHING you the highlights on the men you’ve met in the preceding pages—those cosmic-minded writers and illustrators who help to nourish Planet Stories.</p>

    <h2>Concerning Mr. Ayre—</h2>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">W</span>E feel pretty certain that Thornton Ayre’s provocative story, “Twilight of the Tenth World,” will fascinate you as much as it did us. Since reading it, our brains have been toying with cosmic possibilities far beyond any possible editorial scope. We’ve been doing our work in an aureate haze of tempting telepathic possibilities. Thought transference, we find (Mr. Ayre to the contrary) does not get out magazines. So, a bit wistfully, perhaps, we’ve thrown in the sponge and pass the problem on to you.</p>
    <p>All of which is merely a leading up to the following letter from Mr. Ayre    concerning the source of his unusual plot.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">“I</span> OWE this entire plot to an article in a leading English daily paper of a year ago, headed Sixth Sense Tested! I have tried for a long time to work out something both possible and adventurous to fit the theory expounded in the article—and “Twilight of the Tenth World” is the result.</p>
    <p>“After all, I’m no new explorer into dreams: men have tried to get to the root of them for ages. I’ve simply tried to work out another way, which—though I say it myself—I don’t consider to be so very unlikely. The hardest part about this story was knitting up the essentially scientific statements of the theory to the fast pace I tried to maintain throughout the yarn itself. I hope I have managed it without any undue sagging...</p>
    <p>“The conception of polarizing gravity is, I hope, one that has the rudiments of possibility. If light can be polarized—and we certainly know it can—why not gravity? And if such a thing were to come about I think we’d find ourselves facing something pretty similar to what I’ve depicted in the story.</p>
    <p>“Maybe some readers will be surprised to find that not a single feminine character appears in the yarn—which is, I suppose, something of a departure after the murky ladies who have pervaded my last few novelettes. Reason? To get a fresh angle; to see if it were possible to change the system and achieve the same effects. Don’t imagine I’m going to drop my mystery females entirely. No: I don’t think a story is properly balanced without them—a story relying entirely on character, that is. This one does not rely on that, but on new theories and action.</p>
    <p>“That, for this time, covers what little I have to say of the background of ‘Twilight of the Tenth World.’ I hope you will enjoy it.”</p>
    <p class="right"><span class="smallcaps">Thornton Ayre</span>,<br />Lancs, England.</p>

    <h2>Addenda—</h2>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">B</span>ECAUSE of lack of space in the last issue, we were unable to publish the complete list of fanmags that Tom Wright so kindly sent U3. We print herewith the remainder. As Mr. Wright pointed out in his letter to us, these publications are not amateur, and stf. fans should not expect to receive them free of charge.</p>

    <p class="fp revindent">FANTASY-NEWS @ 3 for 10¢ from 31-81 41st St., Long Island City, N. Y.</p>
    <p class="fp revindent">FANTASY FICTIONEER @ 10¢ from Sully Roberds, 922 West Division St., Normal, III. The official organ of the Mini Fantasy Fictioneers. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="fp revindent">PLUTO @ 10¢ from L. S. &amp; H. Club, Decker, Ind. Humor and drawings. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="fp revindent">GOLDEN ATOM @ 10¢ from Larry B. Far-saci, 48 Lewis St., Rochester, N. Y. Poetry and collectors’ articles. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="fp revindent">PSFS NEWS @ 5¢ from Jack Agnew and Robert A. Madle, 2308 E. Belgrade St., Philadelphia, Penna. Local news. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="fp revindent">THE SCIENTAL @ 10¢ from Bob Studley, 519 W. 134th St., New York City. General fan material. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="fp revindent">YEARBOOK OF WEIRD, SCIENCE AND FANTASY FICTION @ 20¢ from Bob Tucker, Box 260, Bloomington, 111. Gives complete data on every stf. story published last year. Mimeographed.</p>
</body>

</html>