<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1>THE VIZIGRAPH</h1>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HERE’S not much doubt about it, fans. You picked the A winners of original illustrations from the Fall issue. They’re Bob Tucker with a score of 60, Charles Hidley with a score of 42 and Isaac Asenion with a score of 9. (These scores aren’t based on letters received—just our own cock-eyed system.) Now here’s a flock of new offerings to the altar. Hop on ’em, stf. fans, and let us know your choices. Remember, the three best get original illustrations from this issue.</p>

    <h2>MERELY THE MOST RAPIDLY IMPROVING MAGAZINE IN AMERICA...</h2>

    <p class="space right">3136 Q St.<br />Lincoln, Nebr.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>All those hard words which I have applied to PS in the past are hereby declared null and void! I have just finished reading the Fall issue of the most rapidly improving mag in America. You can’t go wrong with such stories as “The Ultimate Salient,” decidedly one of the best <i>by</i> one of the best, Nelson S. Bond; “Quest on Io,” a very entertaining tale, by an author who seems able to write stories of all grades, from the very worst, to the very best; “The Planet That Time Forgot,” the best story on this particular theme since Dr. Breuer’s, back in “the good(?) old days”; "Hermit of Saturn’s Ring,” with some neat characterization; and,—well, why continue? Selwyn’s adventure suited me least, but it is a good adventure yam of its type. If you keep on improving at the present rate—but there MUST be a limit somewhere! Anyway, you are going to get suggestions that you go bimonthly; and, on the basis of this issue, I think they will be justified.</p>
    <p>For the prize letters, I nominate Bob Tucker’s for first, Charles Hidley’s, for second, and Izaac Asim—oops! <i>Asenion’s</i>, for third. But, if you want to turn them around, it is Okay with me. The latter has voiced my favorite plea, “Down with ‘slop’ in science-fiction!” Hidley calls <i>me</i> a “constant groaner”; but several letters in <i>this</i> issue “groan” about the same items; and Tucker sets us all straight on that strange but interesting mutant, the non-story-reading collector! All in all, the enlarged “Visigraph” is greatly appreciated.</p>
    <p>The cover is greatly improved, with the fully-clothed Redhead replacing the “over-exposed blonde” of previous issues, although the scene presented must have been taken from a story by the artist, since it is not taken from any tale in the mag.</p>
    <p>Paul has turned out one of his best drawings of the year for Bond’s fine story. Rosenthal and Lynch also do very well. Morey has done some good work, at times, but he didn’t do it for Cummings’ story.</p>
    <p>The plea for smooth edges at this time is a little premature; but, with the increased circulation which this issue is SURE to bring, it may be justified shortly. Here’s hoping!</p>
    <p>Yours sincerely,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">D. B. Thompson.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Editor’s Note:</span> Go on Mr. Thompson! I bet you tell that to all the editors.</p>

    <h2>LAURELS FOR LYNCH</h2>

    <p class="right">General Delivery,<br />Fort B. Harrison,<br />Indiana.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>A few crits and back-slapping: The flying belt on the cover is impractical because the wearer could stick an arm or leg into the rocket stream and then be minus a leg or an arm. Why does he need thick clothing and an oxygen helmet when the lady needs neither and seems to be quite contented. The color contrast was very good but I believe the covers should be more scientific.</p>
    <p>In Rosenthal’s picture, “Quest on Io,” the woman’s facial expression bothers me. Will Rosenthal kindly tell me whether it is love, anger, fear, etc. The picture was hazy except for the symmetrical lines of the airship.</p>
    <p>Don Lynch is your best. In his picture of “Buccaneer of the Star Seas” we find the best as represented by the ship. The ship itself is a wonder of scientific imagination. I ask for more of him and less of Rosenthal’s present work. Don’s small sketch of Carlyle and the friar rate generous applause. The picture makes them live more vividly thru-out the story. He has another wonderful picture of ships of the future in “Hermit of Saturn’s Rings.” The sketch of Jasper was even better than that of Carlyle and the friar. His picture of “Venus Has Green Eyes” was a detriment to his ability. I think we should have his ships in color on the cover or framed in the book by simple black lines.</p>
    <p>The stories were average and the pictures did help them up a lot. Top ranking was “Hermit of Saturn’s Rings” and “The Ultimate Salient” running a close second.</p>
    <p>If some of the science rag-chewers wish to drop me a line I will be thankful.</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">A Crank,<br />Joe Fitzgerald.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Editor’s Note:</span> Even Rosenthal has to admit that the “Quest on Io’s” lady has her emotions mixed. The main trouble though is adenoids,</p>

    <h2>WANTED—ONE ORANGE-EYED ZWILNIK</h2>
    <p class="right">140-92 Burden Crescent,<br />Jamaica, N. Y.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>When I first bought PS I thought it was another of those low-grade s-f mags, that seem to spring up over night (curiously, this type either disappears again almost as quickly or improves). But after perusing it I found the grade of stories were high. And so another reader joined the happy little fold.</p>
    <p>But there is one squawk I’ll have to make. For FOUR issues the hero and heroine have cavorted on the cover, blowing up rocket ships, etc. Please, dear Editor, do SOMETHING to relieve the monotony—even the picture of an orange-eyed zwilnik from the 5th planet of Alpha Centauri would be better. Seriously though, I would like to have Paul do a cover <i>illustrating a story</i>—preferably machinery at which he excels. To complete the art survey: the interior drawings are very good, the ones by Paul and Lynch being the best.</p>
    <p>Now for the stories. “The Ultimate Salient” is, of course, the best—and contains a rather unique idea. It also paints a happy picture of the future of democracy? The rest of the stories are fair, though not quite up to the level of the Summer issue. This is probably just a lull before PS begins to improve again. The two departments are improving—and the best letters in the Vizigraph are Tucker, Hidley, and Hurter in that order.</p>
    <p>Suggestion: why not raise price to quarter and trim edges?</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">William Stoy.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Editor’s Note:</span> Wait till your eye lights on the next cover job.</p>

    <h2>WISHES COME TRUE</h2>

    <p class="right">2541 Aqueduct Ave.,<br />New York, New York.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>I wish to first thank you most sincerely for printing my letter, thereby giving me a chance-even though very slight with Tucker, Thompson and Azimov in the same issue—of obtaining one of those very beautiful illustrations in the Fall publication. After you are so good to present it, it depends on me to win it and I am praying my best. I’ll have the gall to give my preferences, those being: 1 Paul, 2 Lynch (Hermit of Saturn’s Ring) and 3 Morey (Revolt in the Ice Empire). Enough of wishful thinking.</p>
    <p>The Drake (?) cover did not accurately depict any scene from the Cummings’ novel and had a poor style, but of the nine stf magazine covers presented in the month of July it copped fifth place and had four of the biggest “name” mags trailing it. Of the illustrations, Paul’s effort easily led the field with the new-comer, Don Lynch, doing swell stuff in black, a style both off the general types and also pleasing to the eye.. Rosenthal is refreshing but it takes some time to cultivate any keen liking for his work. I would prefer him in weird channels, I think. Please don’t listen to readers with complaints against Morey, an artist with, such a unique style that I rate him amongst my favorites despite his faults. Give him machines and ships and cities to do and his real worth will soon become apparent. I’d like to see cover work by Paul and Morey and the others, and am sorry that you prefer one-artist covers.</p>
    <p>It was delightful to read another link in Bond’s series that have now appeared in three different mags to date. The adventures of O’Shea was the best of the four and the one complaint is its brevity. Ed Earl’s Repp’s weird “Buccaneer” is second on this list, with <i>Domain of Zero</i> such a close third it was almost a tie.</p>
    <p>It amazes me the way Neil R. Jones has been held down for so many years. His recent flood of work in this field has hardly been mediocre, and the No. 4 Hermit yam is another proof that his is a good thing to have. Lynch is a fine artist, but should beware of comic-strip effects and should round out his work to a three-dimensional perspective. This latter idea was completely lost in the No. 2 story drawing.</p>
    <p><i>The Planet that Time Forgot</i> has an old plot, but because of Wollheim’s novel development and construction it became a plot with a new angle worthy of a second perusal and also fine for fifth place. I’m sorry that Cummings’ cover story gets only the No. 6 spot, but the plot was so old and the action trite and overdone to such a boring state, that this had to sink down. Morey good here.</p>
    <p>I have <i>Quest on Io</i> down for seventh place, but on looking over this short I almost feel it should be in fifth. Oh, well, the talking animal there isn’t new so I guess it’ll stay there. Last is the Selwyn short, merely human-interest stuff, but with such a grand climactic punch that it deserves more.</p>
    <p>To be frank, the Fall issue was not as good as the Summer one, but perhaps we can blame that to the heat. So sorry you had but one full-page, framed pic this issue, but will hope for them next time. I dislike “spreads,” but if they are neatly done I suppose complaint is unfair. I’d gladly pay a higher price for trimmed edges. Your book is so aristocratic with the sane printing and few advertisements that TE would add much toward a bigger seller. You cannot know what a delight it is to miss the Pepsi-Cola cops, the Sen-Sen horned germs and the Burma stubbles, not to mention “I Talked with God (Yes, Actually and Literally),” and though I realize that advertisements are a mag’s life blood, I hope you shan’t have to resort to them in the future.</p>
    <p>Keep away from sloppy mush, an item that was very prevalent this time, with three or four yarns crawling with it. Better than the first two issues in that much of it has been deleted.</p>
    <p>I guess I didn’t win that Fall Paul after all, and I realize this longwinded bunch of zero won’t have a chance Maybe Spring issue, hunh?</p>
    <p>Thanks,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Charles Hidley.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Editor’s Note:</span> Why wait for Spring, Mr. Hidley? On the strength of your previous letter you’re due for either the Lynch or the Morey as soon as we hear from Bob Tucker, concerning his first choice.</p>

    <h2>ONE, TWO, THREE</h2>

    <p class="right">Mountain Home, Idaho.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>The three best letters in Fall issue of Planet Stories are, in my opinion:</p>
    <p class="noindent thin">No. 1—Charles Hidley<br />“ 2—Bob Tucker<br />“ 3—Isaac Asenion</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Emrys Evans.</p>

    <h2>BOTTLED IN BOND</h2>

    <p class="right">Lagro, Indiana.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>A short, short recipe for top-notch stories— A several thousand-word batter well mixed by one Nelson S. Bond, add frosting by Paul and bake in “Planet Stories.”</p>
    <p>For results of said recipe consult “Planet Stories” for Fall 1940, and I might add that Paul’s frosting on that job is one of the best he has ever done, and Bond’s batter is the best he has stirred up yet.</p>
    <p>Give the illus. in the Fall issue to Charley Hidley, Tucker, and Fred Hurter in the order named.</p>
    <p>One thing more, change your covets and give us some space scenes such as a battle between two or more Space vessels or intricate machines, etc., in fact almost anything, but <i>Puh-lease</i> no more hero rescues heroine from villain type you have been featuring. And now to swipe a quotation from Lowell Thomas and say,</p>
    <p>So long until next issue,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Robert Stoker.</p>

    <h2>NOT A BAD IDEA—ABOUT OSCAR</h2>

    <p class="right">312 East Elm Street,<br />Scranton, Pennsylvania,</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>I have two reasons for writing this letter; one is to try and win an original Paul or Lynch drawing, and the second is to ask you to announce somewhere in the next issue of <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> like to communicate with all readers in Scranton and the vicinity who are interested in forming a local fan club. All interested should write me care of the above address or telephone 2-2554.</p>
    <p>Now I come to*the Fall issue of Planet Stories. ‘The best story in the issue was Wollheim's “The Planet that Time Forgot.” The author’s explanation of the different time-rate between the two worlds seemed very plausible. Wollheim seems to be an up-and-coming author.</p>
    <p>“Hermit of Saturn’s Ring,” by Neil R. Jones, is a close second to Wollheim’s tale. Perhaps, In fact, there was no incredible theory in the story. There also was not much action, but Jones’ descriptions of all that Jasper did, saw and encountered were very interesting. Even though I perceived the escape of the white monster, and even though the characterization was handled poorly in some parts, I still say the story was interesting enough to be in second place.</p>
    <p>A fair third place is filled by Bond’s “The Ultimate Salient.” This is what might be called a <i>science</i> fiction story, but the fact that it is, in part, a war tale spoiled it a little. Too much war is sneaking into stf. There seems to be a slight error in the story. In the story proper it is made clear that one Eben Clinton is passing on the story. Therefore, in the note in italics on page eighteen his initials and not Bond’s should appear. Right or wrong?</p>
    <p>Williams’ story, “Quest on Io,” presents a new character, of which I would like to see more. None other than Oscar, the Ganymedian honey bear, who provided some humor for me. You ought to try and get some humorous stories, and also more with Oscar in the cast.</p>
    <p>Repp’s new twist to the immortal tale “Buccaneer of the Star Seas” puts that story in fifth place. The other three stories are fair.</p>
    <p>The best artists presented in the issue are Paul, Lynch, Morey, and Rosenthal. Your two new" artists are a lot better than some new artists that other stf mags have produced. Who did the cover? It is an admirable piece of work.</p>
    <p>Tucker, Hidley, and Thomnson, in the order named, should receive the originals. I miss your editorial comments on the letters. A few things irritate me. If you are going to put a date on one letter, date the others also. Either put the names and addresses before or after all letters. The fourth issue is the only issue of PS that I have read, and I am not sorry I read it. It has induced me to <i>find</i> time to read the previous issues. Keep future issues as the fourth one was and you will have me for a steady reader.</p>
    <p>Plantascientomically yours,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Rajocz.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Ed.’s Note:</span> Concerning page 18—you’re right. We and Bond were very, very wrong.</p>

    <h2>PAGING MISS MOROJO—</h2>

    <p class="right">70 Leuty Ave.,<br />Toronto, Ont.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>I purchased the first issue of Planet Stories because I am in the habit of buying first issues of all science fiction magazines. Like most, this first issue did not come up to expectations, but because of its promise of improvement I was reluctant to ignore it. Now I am glad I did nof. The advent of Paul and Morey as illustrators raised it the first step, and the great improvement in stories by recognized leaders brings it to the elevation of any publication in this field. When one sees Paul in a publication, one realizes the editor is versed in science fiction tradition and is aware of its unique attraction; not merely a western magazine gone futuristic.</p>
    <p>I will not attempt to rate the stories individually. Suffice it to say the trend is toward the best. Paul’s illustration for “The Ultimate Salient” is very well done. The humans are secondary to the machine, in which Frank R. excels. Rosenthal is also quite good. He has a knack foi' alien beings; Oscar and the “creatures” of Domain of Zero. As he will not be with you- long, by all means utilize his skill to the utmost while you can.</p>
    <p>I usually have a motive for any letter I write to a science fiction magazine. In this case it is the hope of an original drawing, preferably by Paul, after Paul a good Morey. I have quite a stf. collection but am lacking an original Paul. An unheard of situation for any avid fan to be in.</p>
    <p>To weaken competition for myself I waited till some of the number one fans voiced their thoughts. 4S J., number one fan by popular vote, and Bob Tucker, number one fan in Bob Tucker’s opinion, have now both aired their views. Now I have only to worry about Morojo. By the way, what exactly is her true identity. I have heard that Morojo is an Esperanto word</p>
    <p>The covers are still too gaudy and comic, but at least in this issue the earthlings have moved from the ship’s door. For fan’s sake use more dignified cover illustrations. For instance a sliver-gray rocket on a dark, star-studded background, a party of humans in futuristic dress, the lounge of a space liner or a planetary view.</p>
    <p>I heartily agree with Mr. Asenion concerning cheap blood-and-thunder and heroes of the type of Superman, Garbageman, etc. The stories might also be improved if, before passing out a crisp checque for a Planet Story, you considered a very true statement concerning science fiction once made by H. G. Welles. Even better, frame a copy and place it on your desk where it may leer at you at all times. Statement: “When this kind of thing is attempted by clumsy writers who do not understand its elementary principles, nothing could be conceived more silly and extravagant.”</p>
    <p>I am an amateur artist myself, and I imagine there are quite a few more in the fan ranks. I would appreciate a department which described incidents of coming stories, for which the amateur artist could send in entries. They could then appear in the corresponding story in addition to the regular artist’s work. Accurate directions would be necessary for the guidance of the entrants. For example, one couldn’t have three Jovian Lionosaurs devouring a planet scout when it distinctly said in the story, “two and one-half Jovian Lionosaurs devouring1 a large red fungus.” My choice for the most interesting letter in the fall issue is Bob Tucker. Then Mr. Asenion and Charles Hidley. Now closing with high hopes, I remain,</p>
    <p>Yours stfictionally,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">S. C. Goldsmith.</p>

    <h2>MORE OF THESE HONEYS!</h2>

    <p class="right">Imperial Bank of Canada,<br />Cobalt, Ont.</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>Just a word about your No. 4 issue of <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> regarding the cover. The faces of bodies of the foremost people are excellently drawn. But the background! Oof— The people near the ship (I take it they are to be people) look like immense monstrosities or fat gorillas. They are far from being proportionate to a man. Another odd-looking feature is the 3 men up in the air being blown out of the Rocket Ship. Somehow it doesn’t hit the right spot when you look at it. (Now for another drawing.)</p>
    <p>About the one on page No. 2. It is an excellently detailed drawing by Paul, but it would have to be spoiled by the “continued on the next page” idea. That white space of about 1½ inches spoils it considerably. Think we can ever have the <i>keen</i> drawings like that done with yellow or blue ink?</p>
    <p>The drawing on page No. 33 is quite good as a relief effect picture.</p>
    <p>Drawings on pages No. 41 and 57 are excellent. The diagram accompanying “The Planet That Time Forgot” on page No. 70 strikes one queerly as you note the tallness of the two persons in the background. Diagram on page No. 81 is novel and new in style, therefore quite pleasing.</p>
    <p>Ah!—now we come to the one—by Don Lynch, on page No. 92. It is splendid. The black relief idea is excellent, giving one a good idea of the lighting, that the planet receives in the same breath. We want more of these honeys!</p>
    <p>Drawing on page No. 101 has excellent perspective, but the lady in foreground ruins it quite a bit by the clawlike hand and style of headdress.</p>
    <p>Please accept my lowly criticisms with good will. I mean no harm! The stories are excellent and I often find the shortest ones are best, so how about lengthening the short?</p>
    <p>Hoping to see this in the “Vizigraph,” I remain,</p>
    <p>Yours truly,</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Paul I. Cuttle.</p>
</body>

</html>