<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body>
    <div id="story">
        <h1>HERMIT OF SATURN’S RING</h1>
        <h2><i>By Neil R. Jones</i></h2>
        <h3>The creeping, evil white fog of Saturn’s ring.... All but old Jasper had been its flesh-devoured victim. Now, alone aboard a coffin-ship, the space Crusoe waited for the return of the swirling, invincible death!</h3>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">O</span>LD Jasper Jezzan passed his fingers through the locks of his graying hair and stared from the port of the space ship at the awful approaching grandeur of Saturn’s rings. The third and outermost ring, their destination, loomed toweringly. He thanked his lucky stars that he was living in this twenty-fourth century which saw mankind pushing back the boundaries of the unexplored solar system with exploits of space pioneering. In his younger years, Jasper had been on the first expedition to Mars. Now, both Mars and Venus were being colonized. Jasper had figured in many strange adventures on both worlds as well as on several of Jupiter’s satellites and the asteroids. Saturn was still virgin territory.</p>
        <p>Jasper had lately passed his three score and ten, but the spirit of adventure still burned in his hardy frame. Again he thanked the fates that he was permitted to be among the first to gaze at the glorious majesty of the great rings at this close distance. He had joined Grenard’s expedition as a tried and experienced hand, and he knew that the City of Fomar was to try and thread a passage through more than fifty miles of tiny moonlets.</p>
        <p>The City of Fomar commenced passing stray, outer moonlets while still several miles from the main band, several of them larger than the sj)ace ship and rough in contour. It was like entering a forest whose trees are less numerous as one approaches. The moonlets in the ring itself were rounded and smooth from bumping contact. Through a slight attraction of gravity, the tinier pieces clung to the largest bodies. The ship plunged deeper into the mass. Every man stood at his appointed post, yet watched the marvelous phenomena without. Jasper's was a lonesome duty at this time. It was his shift in the air rejuvenating chamber, else this story might never have been told or had 80 fallen to the lot of a younger man. Unaware of what was impending, Jasper had looked his last upon the faces of his fellow adventurers, alive or dead. He turned a wary old eye to the gauges, and then turned his attention back to the unfolding mysteries of Saturn’s ring.</p>
        <p>The space ship of the Grenard expedition plunged ever deeper into the slowly revolving mass of moonlets. Sunlight became almost constantly eclipsed and less brilliant. Shadows, as always in space, were dark and sharp-edged. The light finally yielded to ever-increasing periods of darkness, and lights from the City of Fomar glowed through the deepening gloom. The City of Fomar occasionally bumped a moonlet in making a narrow passage, sending the fragment bumping against its neighbors in what appeared to be an endless relay of inertia without a retarding influence of any kind.</p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">E</span>VER deeper they penetrated into the depths of the ring. Without receiving a summoning buzz, Jasper tuned in upon the observation room where the officials of the expedition were gathered.</p>
        <p>“There must be trillions of these little moons!”</p>
        <p>That was Commander Grigsby. It was Grenard who replied.</p>
        <p>“That, easy.”</p>
        <p>“What is that white fog over there?”</p>
        <p>“What fog—the white moonlet?”</p>
        <p>“No—it’s not a moonlet. See how it changes shape—and it is misty.”</p>
        <p>“Why, yes, it’s like smoke, and it’s drifting this way.”</p>
        <p>“See it stretch out, almost as if it wen alive. What can it be?”</p>
        <p>“Dust.”</p>
        <p>This was an under officer.</p>
        <p>“Without any atmosphere to float it?” Grigsby’s voice was mildly derisive.</p>
        <p>“It’s breaking up.”</p>
        <p>Jasper had traveled the space lanes too much of his life not to sense something unusual. He went to the port and looked out, putting his head to one side of the port for an oblique view. The phenomenon was directly ahead. He could not see it. Inwardly, he chafed a bit. He listened for further detail.</p>
        <p>“What makes it move?”</p>
        <p>"Tell me what it is, first.”</p>
        <p>“It can’t be alive!”</p>
        <p>“The ship attracts it! The cloud is breaking up into separate parts!”</p>
        <p>Again Jasper looked out, and he saw some of the strange stuff. It was like white smoke and possessed a volition of its own. He could no more imagine what substance made it up than he could account for its movement. It seemed almost to be alive, yet the idea was absurd even to Jasper Jezzan who had seen many strange things. This was a strange new clement or combination of elements behaving strangely in this outer ring of Saturn. The rings themselves were phenomenal. The cloud turned from white to gray as it expanded to show dim contours of tnoonlets behind it. Again, it seemed to compress, appearing like a sluggish liquid or a solid.</p>
        <p>“Here comes more of the clouds!”</p>
        <p>“And more! Look! There! There! And all around!”</p>
        <p>“They are merging together!”</p>
        <p>“A part is dividing itself! See—it is splitting up!”</p>
        <p>Bewilderment and awe expressed itself in the voices of the expeditionary heads. Jasper felt a tingle of excitement as he watched the queer antics of the unnatural material. He saw it gathering about the space ship. His port of observation went suddenly a translucent gray, and he could see nothing. He peered into the depth of that white mass separated from him by ten inches of crystal. It was like looking into dense smoke or a concentrated fog. Muffled knockings and other unaccountable sounds were heard upon the hull of the City of Fomar.</p>
        <p>"We’re not moving as fast!” Jasper heard Commander Grigsby exclaim. He detected a note of uneasiness in the voice.</p>
        <p>“Can it be that damnable white stuff holding us back?”</p>
        <p>“I don’t know—but wait! The ports on this side of the ship are commencing to clear!”</p>
        <p>There followed a significant pause. Jasper strained his ears for further reports. His own port was still obscured.</p>
        <p>“Grigsby—see those long strands of the stuff, like cables! It has us fastened to the moonlets!”</p>
        <p>“More power!” the commander ordered.</p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">A</span> FAINT, soft sighing of the hull over his head drew Jasper’s eyes back to the port. He saw a white contour slide away. He looked out and saw that long, cobwebbed strands of the mist showed a remarkable adhesion and tensile strength in holding the City of Fomar to the surrounding moonlets. With the application of greater power, Jasper saw the attached moons join in the forward progress of the space ship and pass the background of further bodies. He saw moonlets collide, felt the slight deviation of the ship and heard jarring concussions of impact as the City of Fomar struck bodies in its passage. Then once more the port was covered, whiter and denser than before. From the excited comment in the observation room, he realized that conditions there were the same. The knocking and pounding mystified them all. Then a new note of alarm rose from the control room.</p>
        <p>“It’s getting into the airlock! A long, thin stream of it is pouring in like a jet of steam!”</p>
        <p>“There must be a weak spot in the outer door!” said Grenard excitedly.</p>
        <p>“Without a pressure of air in the chamber, the outer door is never securely fastened! Wje’.ll fill it 1”</p>
        <p>Jasper heard his name called.</p>
        <p>“Aye, sir!”</p>
        <p>“Put a good head of air into the lock!”</p>
        <p>The old man sprang to the controls and heard the air go hissing through pipes on its way to the airlock.</p>
        <p>“That damned stuff is still coming in!”</p>
        <p>“But not so fast!”</p>
        <p>“The air is leaking out!”</p>
        <p>“It’s driving the mist away outside!”</p>
        <p>“Now—the door is tight!”</p>
        <p>“The white stuff inside the lock is expanding!"</p>
        <p>Jasper was given a sudden order to stop the air. He never did know why. No one lived to tell him. He heard many voices risen in alarm, too mixed and garbled to understand little more than the fact that the inner door had been forced. And then the outer one once more yielded. The white stuff was coming inside, and the air was leaving the ship. This last fact Jasper’s horrified eyes took in at the gauges.</p>
        <p>Sharp cries and awful screams came to him, screams which shuddered, were muffled and cut off short. This did not last very long. Soon, an ominous silence reigned. The white mist still veiled the port, and it was inside the ship, too. Jasper pulled himself together and ran down the corridor to close off that part of the ship. Too late. The white mist already curled along the floor and walls of the corridor exploringly in substantial volume. As if it felt his presence, it spread alarmingly fast in his direction the minute he stopped halfway down the corridor in dismay. A veil of the awful material streamed smokily across the ceiling and waved a curling pedicle almost in his face. An unnameable fear blanched Jasper's reason momentarily, but the old space mariner and explorer took a grip on his nerves. He turned and ran back into the atmosphere chamber. The white mist had gathered from the walls, ceiling and floor of the corridor, and he saw it coming for him slowly at first, yet with gathering momentum.</p>
        <p>In the atmosphere chamber, he gave the main air trunk valve a quick turn which shut it off. Then he seized a space suit hanging near by and leaped inside an empty air tank just as the ball of white mist came charging madly out of the corridor at him. A shivering seized him, and it was not born of fear. A coldness was rapidly filling the ship. The air was leaving it. He found himself gasping and was glad he had turned off the main trunk. He was in darkness, having swiftly closed the hatch cover of the tank against entrance by the white menace. He turned the inside valve of the tank, feeling in the dark for it. He felt about and found the space suit; then suddenly reeled drunkenly humping his head against the metal wall of the tank. He felt strangely exhilarated *nd light headed. He had given the tank too much air. This was oxygen intoxication and dangerous in his circumstances. He fumbled about and found the valve again which he turned off. Then he collapsed as everything went giddy. But here lay death from coldness, and Jasper knew he must get into the space suit. His muscles were stiff and balky from the cold temperature which was dropping lower all the time. But he got the space suit on and started its normal air supply and heat to functioning. Not until then did he give way to the strain upon him. From a halfsitting position, he fell over sideways on the floor of th« tank utterly unconscious.</p>

        <p>
            <h4 class="space">II</h4>
        </p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">J</span>ASPER JEZZAN never knew how long he lay in that air tank unconscious inside his space suit. It seemed to have been little longer than minutes, yet it might have been hours. In the dark, he took stock of himself and the situation, collecting his thoughts. Death rode that ship, the ravaging white doom its master. He wondered if anyone else had escaped. He had a subtle intuition of the cloudy menace still waiting outside. He wondered what malignant properties it held against a man in a space suit. He had no intention of putting the question to the test as long as he could hold out. He decided to wait patiently and see if the dread mist would leave the ship. Somehow, he was able to feel its presence outside the tank, roaming about, searching the City of Fo-mar out of which the air had drained to be wasted away into space among the moon-lets. t</p>
        <p>He turned on the body lights of the space suit to relieve the monotony of the gloom and focus his thoughts upon something tangible, something he could see, although the inside of the tank with its inner valves and their controls were familiar to him. He arose and drained the tank of air. It would be necessary to at least reduce the pressure before he opened the door of the tank.</p>
        <p>Then he sat down in the tank and waited, changing position from time to time. There was a strange affinity between this white mist and a subtle sixth sense, for Jasper realized with relief when the stuff had gone. Yet he was cautious, opening the tank door slowly and peering out. The ship’s lights were still lit both inside and out. The first thing he did was to peer from the port. The City of Fo-mar was drifting among the moonlets. One of them almost touched the ship up front. He saw no sign of the ghostly material which had forced a way int® the ship. He felt sure that it was all gone. Then Jasper made a test, although he was almost certain of the result beforehand. He took a box of polishing powder down from a rack, removing the cover and letting a bit sift out. The motes did not drift to the floor, they fell like stones. As Jasper had suspected, the air was all gone from the ship.</p>
        <p>He walked slowly down the corridor and to the fore, through the control room and into the observation chamber. He was prepared for the sight of death but not so complete and horribly efficient. White bones and skulls lay on the floor. The white mist had absorbed the flesh and articles of clothing. He moved one of the bones with his foot and was startled to see the indentation left by his metal shoe. He stooped and picked up a femur. It crumbled to bits in his hand. What awful entity or form of life was this cloudy mist of Saturn’s ring? He wandered slowly about the ship and discovered more crumbly bones as the chilling suspicion of the truth struck him. He was the last man, the only man, alive on the ship.</p>
        <p>He went into the control room to look over the mechanism, wondering how he was ever going to guide the space ship out of the ring single handed. His wonder was put to rest. He found all electrical equipment and instruments wrecked irreparably. Examination of them confirmed his suspicions. Proximity with the white mist had upset and destroyed them as completely as if a lightning bolt had darted through the ship. He was alone on a derelict and lost in Saturn’s ring.</p>
        <p>Jasper grimly hung on to his nerves. Things weren’t so bad as they might be. There was enough food and drink aboard to last him a lifetime. The air machines functioned smoothly. He could shut off one or two chambers of the ship and manage to live. He dared not think too much of the future, of living out the rest of his life a solitary prisoner in Saturn's ring. Grenard’s plans of entering the third ring on his way to the planet’s satellite, Dione, had been known, of course, on all three worlds, but chances of anyone coming through the outer ring at this particular point, even if they were looking for the lost expedition, were almost non-existent. He realized with a sinking feeling that the ship’s system of communication had been disrupted.</p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">H</span>E became hungry. He found food stores and took them back to the air tank. He also found a radium heater and installed it for heat and light. Then he carried in bedding and other basic comforts of life. He would have to live there until he could fit up and seal off chambers of the ship. There were three principal sections of the City of Fomar which were built to be sealed in case of emergency. The blow had fallen so quickly, and the deadliness of the white horror had been so unexpected and devastating that no refuge had been taken. Jasper intended shutting off and using that section of the ship including the atmosphere chamber and supply rooms.</p>
        <p>From time to time, he looked out among the moonlets for a trace of the white mist returning, but all was quiet and unmoving. He turned off the lights of the City of Fomar. He wanted to save power, at least until he knew where he stood and whether conservation was necessary. As for the misty material, he recalled the luminous, ghostly qualities it had evidenced in the distance where moonlets had blocked the lights from the ship.</p>
        <p>Fitting up the chosen section of the ship for habitation was a longer job than Jasper had previously figured. The white mist had wreaked havoc which he had not originally noticed. Many substances such as leather, felt and other products of organic origin had been either absorbed or damaged in part by the strange white entity that lived in space, and Jasper found many items of repair, replacement and substitution requiring long work with whit he had to do with before the chambers could be closed off and made safely habitable.</p>
        <p>There were chronometers undamaged by the coming of the white mist, and Jas-per preserved them carefully and maintained their functions. He was more than two weeks of earth time in rehabilitating that part of the ship in which he had chosen to live out his lonely existence. Another five weeks were employed in the long corridor leading from the atmosphere chamber where he constructed an air lock. Jasper kept a sharp eye ready, even rigging up an electrical sounder alarm for his sleeping hours, but the white mist did not return during these weeks of his labors. Jasper, however, was prepared. He felt that the radium ray ejectors he had ready would do something to that white mist. He did not want to let the stuff get in its first blow and catch him unawares. He still recalled with a shudder how he had found a wooden door of a small clothes closet smashed to splinters by the compressed and concentrated blows given it by the white menace. Behind the wreckage of the door he had found the crumbling bones of Holman, a firm friend of Jasper’s on the trip to Saturn. Jasper had been more fortunate in choosing the strong air tank.</p>
        <p>In the long months which passed, the white mist did not return, and old Jasper Jezzan lived his lonely life aboard the derelict. He occasionally left the City of Fomar in space suit but never went far among the moonlets, even though he left the ship’s lights blazing to guide him back again. When the lights were not on, everything was black and cheerless outside—no starlight, just space closely filled with floating moonlets. Jasper knew that once these unnumbered legions of tiny bodies had been a satellite of Saturn which had broken up. On his little excursions, he always carried one of the radium ray ejectors to use in case the white peril should return and catch him outside.</p>
        <p>He made an interesting discovery on one of these trips. He was chipping the side of a moonlet when his helmet came in contact with the body. His chipping at the moonlet in a curious search for minerals produced an unnatural sound. He hit it again and again, and then he suddenly realized that the little moon was hollow. He marked it and went about looking for others. He found but three more among the hundreds surrounding the space ship. He could only hazard one possibility. The interior of the satellite had still been molten when it broke up under the strong, tidal attraction from Saturn. There had been occasional thick bubbles which had cooled.</p>
        <p>For want of something to do, Jasper immediately set forth plans for drilling into one of the moonlets, and he chose the largest of the four, a sphere fully twenty-five feet in diameter. Fie found equipment on the City of Fomar which would serve the purpose, and he set to work. He marveled at the density and strength of the semi-metallic substance and also at the thickness of the bubble. He drilled more than three feet before he reached emptiness. Fie was several days making an opening into the spheroid large enough to admit his body, and then when he was inside he found no more than he had expected, the inside spherical contour a bit rough and bubbled, glinting back the rays of his light.</p>
        <p>In this way and many other ways, Jasper fought off the spectre of loneliness. He experimented with the ship’s instruments, making a few tests and repairs, finally coming to te belief that he had found the direction of Saturn. Had the ship been manageable, he believed that he could have guided it out of the ring and into free space.</p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">I</span>T was nearly a year after the catastrophe which had overtaken the space ship in Saturn’s ring before the event which Jasper had nervously anticipated too place. The white clouds returned. The menace came from all directions, seemingly, and focused upon the disabled City of Fomar. Jasper was luckily inside when the attack came. He saw an unnatural luminescence beyond the ports where utter darkness should have reigned, and he watched with rapid beating heart as ghostly swirls of curling, merging, dividing white strands enveloped the derelict until again all the ports were covered up.</p>
        <p>Quickly, Jasper hurried to the little turret he had fixed. The movable radium ray ejector lay ready. The old man grasped the control lever and trigger nervously and loosed a sustained barrage. He could not see the result of his work for the port was obscured, but he saw that something had taken place, for there was a visible shifting movement of the white stuff in the recurrent graying and thinning. When the port cleared, he saw that his ray ejector was effectively burning a hole through the cloudy entity before it. He swung the weapon and watched in grim satisfaction as it cut swaths of emptiness through the malignant mist which retreated instinctively, the scattered parts rejoining and merging into singleness. There was something repulsive in it, and Jasper shivered violently as he recalled the crumbling bones of its victims.</p>
        <p>The ray ejector touched but an insignificant portion of the menace and possessed but a small area in which to work. Again, Jasper heard the same noises about the hull of the derelict. The ominous visitor was seeking an entrance, pressing, contracting and pounding, testing for weak spots. Jasper hurried to his improvised airlock and saw with dismay that the white mist had found a way inside it. The outer door was forced. The deadly vapor was in full possession of all the ship except that part which Jasper had closed off. Jasper grabbed a nearby ray ejector and made a hasty connection with a closed slot on his side of the airlock. He had foreseen this emergency, and he was prepared. He made an airtight connection, opened the slot and released a discharge of the ray into the rapid gathering mist which threatened the inner door. -He saw it recoil and experienced a savage joy as it evaporated, untouched wisps of it hurriedly withdrawing from the airlock as if apprised in some telepathic manner of its peril. The menace had been removed here and not too soon, either, for Jasper knew what the accumulated power that gathering cloud could exert upon the inner door. It had happened before.</p>
        <p>Something told him to make a hasty examination of other parts of his closed-off chambers, and he was glad that he did. He found a searching, groping cloud of the hateful mist in the atmosphere chamber. One quick glance at a tiny thread of white gushing from an air joint leading to another part of the ship showed Jasper the means of entrance. He quickly destroyed the cloud and released a current of air into the unused pipe, forcing out the white mist under pressure. He then made a quick tightening of the joint which under normal circumstances had never before leaked.</p>
        <p>Jasper hoped that the insidious material would find no means of effecting a wholesale entrance, for he knew that he could never combat so much of it successfully with the ray ejectors. He would be overwhelmed. His skin crept at the thought. Jasper was brave and had been through much during his adventurous life, but there were ways to die vastly more preferable to Jasper than being assimilated and made a part of the ghastly white cloud. He ran back to his airlock and found, as he had feared, that it was again being filled by the white vapor. He cleared it and then ran back to the atmosphere chamber. Everything clear. He hurriedly examined the storerooms and breathed a sigh of relief. No entrance had been effected at these points. He hurried back to the airlock to fight off the accumulating mist.</p>
        <p>It was a long, hideous nightmare for Jasper. The white mist stayed longer this time than before, possibly because of a whetted appetite tantalized and unappeased. Yet Jasper realized that the cloud was self sustaining. Once during this time, it again forced the joint in the atmosphere chamber and Jasper had a fight on his hands. His timekeepers registered sixty-two hours before the strange resident of Saturn’s ring left as mysteriously as it had come. Until then, Jasper did not sleep. After that, he yielded, for he knew instinctively that the white cloud would not return for a long time.</p>

        <p>
            <h4 class="space">III</h4>
        </p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">R</span>EFRESHED from sleep, Jasper examined his damaged airlock and thereby made an earnest resolve. He would quit the City of Foma* with its numerous possibilities of entrance by the persistent white mist and take up living quarters in the strong and hollow moonlet he had penetrated with so much difficulty. In the days which followed, days recorded only by his chronometers amid the changeless gloom of Saturn’s ring, Jasper worked as industriously to this end as he had labored in sealing off a section of the space ship. Equipped with a strong hatch, he believed that the white menace could never force its way inside the metallic walls of the globe.</p>
        <p>Jasper's first step was to enlarge the entrace he had made to the specifications of one of the emergency exits on the City of Fomar. Two of these large ports were removed from the ship. One was installed on the outside of the passage through the thick wall of the globe, the other on the inside. In this manner, Jasper had his airlock for entering and leaving the hermitage. Then he installed partitions and a flooring, equipping this flooring with the gravitational substance taken from the floors of the space ship. There were four chambers. Two of these constituted his living quarters. The other two consisted of a storeroom and a room for housing the atmosphere plant and heating unit he planned to install from the space ship. As rapidly as he could accomplish the task, old Jasper Jezzan became a cosmic Robinson Crusoe.</p>
        <p>Besides stores of food, his storeroom contained all manner of essentials taken from the ship. He did not abandon the ship but protected it from drifting away by attaching it to the moonlet with a long cable. He had found that there were various drifts to the moonlets, according to their sizes and neighbors. Slight gravitational influences played strange tricks, and he had noticed a slow change of positions in the neighboring moonlets since the catastrophe.</p>
        <p>Jasper finally completed his hermitage, and he was not sorry to leave the City of Fornar with its ghostly memories and the constant fear of another visitation by the white stuff. During his building of the hermitage, another eight months had passed in solitude. Jasper had reconciled himself to this kind of an existence in the depths of Saturn’s furthest ring. Thoughts of living there did not weigh upon him so heavily as the thoughts of dying there without the companionship of humanity—alone and untended. He wondered, sometimes, if his hermitage and the attached derelict would some day be found when the moons of Saturn were explored and colonized. This discovery might be hundreds of years later, perhaps thousands of years. Jasper was old, and he had known solitude in the cosmos before, yet he had never been an involuntary prisoner of it until now. He wondered if the ghostly cloud would eventually find a way of getting to him or if he would die of old age. As for the food stores, he might live a good twenty years yet, he realized, and he had faith in the air and heating equipment and in his ability as a cosmic mechanic to keep everything in perfect running order. The machines were not so intricate but what he had the means of replacing parts. One chamber Jasper still maintained aboard the space ship. That was the machine shop. He worked there in a space suit.</p>
        <p>He was both relieved and disappointed when the hermitage in the moonlet was completed; relieved, because he now felt more secure against the white enemy; disappointed, because time once more commenced to hang heavy on his hands. He was thankful for the books, audioviewreels and other means of education and entertainment aboard the City of Fomar, but these promised to eventually become too familiar and well known.</p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">J</span>ASPER had lived in his new habitation for more than six months when during one of his sleeping periods, he was awakened by a sharp bump which set his moonlet in motion. This unusual break in the monotony of silence and comparative stability in Saturn’s ring aroused Jasper like a shot out of a gun. He switched on the powerful floodlights of the City of Fomar by remote control and stared through a transparent facing in the outer port of his airlock at a strange sight. All the moonlets were changing position. He saw them in a relay of motion from a disturbance not visible. Moonlets struck companions, then stopped as the immutable relay of inertia continued. His own moonlet was moving. It finally jostled another body gently. The derelict had been bumped closer, and the cable was suspended in a fantastic shape. Another moonlet struck the hermitage, the sudden contact sending him off balance. Moonlets not striking one another squarely kept moving, their motion divided up with the bodies they struck. There was no loss of motion, no slowing up because of gravity. The movement was relayed. Jasper realized that these contacts would continue in the same direction and at varying tangents all through the ring. He wondered what had set the moonlets into motion. Perhaps a meteor swarm had hit the ring. He watched until the zone of movement had passed on completely and all was quiet and peaceful once more before he returned to sleep.</p>
        <p>When he awoke and looked out, a thrill of discovery claimed him. A misty fog obscured tne outer entrance of the hermitage. With little criss-crossing radium ray ejectors installed outside the port and operated from within, he cleared the obstruction to his vision and looked out. The derelict was covered with a snowy mantle which was alive as it billowed and twisted. He knew that this mantle was but the surging outer rank of the crowding material which had forced itself unrestrained inside the City of Fomar and was greedily exploring all nooks and crannies, assimilating anything of organic origin it touched. Even the cable holding the ship to the hermitage was covered deeply with the strange stuff.</p>
        <p>Jasper realized a snug sense of security. He no longer feared the white mist. He was curious. He wondered if there was any connection between the return of the white entity and the recent upheaval among the moonlets. Had the nialig^nt clouds caused the commotion, or had the latter event aroused and stimulated the mist? Jasper wondered where the mist went and what it did when it was not clustered about the derelict and his moorilet. He decided to experiment with it.</p>
        <p>In the depth of the ring, he created a disturbance of his own. There were explosives aboard the City of Fomar, and he placed six charges on the sides of as many moonlets situated at a safe distance from the hermitage. He returned to the hermitage and set them off by radio impulse. They jumped suddenly away from his common center and relayed their motion to their nearest neighbors, ad infinitum.</p>
        <p>Jasper waited patiently. He had arranged a trap to catch some of that white mist. He was going to study it if, and when, it came again. He waited for hours, and there was no sign of the white terror from the unknown reaches of the ring. He was about decided that he was on the wrong track when his heart leaped suddenly at sight of the familiar, wispy, white strands curling like luminous smoke about the nearer moonlets. The devilish substance had been aroused after all, just as Jasper had believed it would be. A disturbance of any kind seemed to bring it unerringly to foreign objects.</p>
        <p>Again it collected about the derelict and roamed the interior, also clustering instinctively about the hermitage as if by subtle sense or intuition it knew of strange contents inside it. Jasper, as on the previous visits, felt its strange effects upon him. It made him restless. It seemed to exert an irritating influence upon his body in a lesser sense than its powerful effects on electrical equipment of the City of Formar during its initial visit. The mist stayed for the usual duration of its time and then left.</p>
        <p>When Jasper wras sure that it was all gone, he put on his space suit and made a hurried trip to the space ship. Full of anticipation, his spirits rose in triumph as he found his trap sprung and automatically imprisoning a small portion of the white mist. He saw the dull jvhite fog through the transparent facing of the tightly closed box. He hurried back with it to the hermitage.</p>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE following days were spent with more interest than he had known since being marooned nearly three years ago. He studied and experimented with the strange material. It was alive. No earthly science had ever known anything like it. Of that, he was sure. He always kept it inside a container, pouring it from one to another. For a vapor, it possessed amazing weight. He never let it touch him, though he knew metal to be impervious to its touch. Sometimes, it became almost a solid, often like a liquid in its quiescent state gathered in the corners of the metal box. Jasper found that it was rarely in the gaseous form, the condition in which he had always seen it before this. He better understood this whenever he shook the box or otherwise agitated the strange substance and saw it become gaseous. It assumed the vapor stage when highly excited and active. As a liquid, it was sluggish; as a solid, quiescent. He found that it was highly radioactive. |</p>
        <p>There were other strange properties of which he did not have the means nor the specialized education to ascertain. He fed it bits of leather, wool and bits of food which were absorbed by the white mist. From these repasts, the little cloud increased in volume. Jasper shuddered when he thought of what might happen if this radio-active substance should be unloosed upon the earth or one of its sister worlds. Yet there were means of destroying it. The radium ray was very effective. Extreme coldness was the natural habitat of the white mist, yet it required a high degree of heat, nearly to the boiling point of water, to destroy it. As might have been expected, heat expanded it.</p>
        <p>Jasper’s thoughts roamed the channels of scientific theory. What was this strange life? Had it been born in Saturn’s ring, or was it from some far corner of the universe? It was probably as ageless and deathless as the moonlets of Saturn’s ring, or of Saturn itself. Had the once stable satellite of Saturn which had broken up into these many small moonlets known life? Was this milky cloud which knew a common existence in subdividing and merging at will the ultimate in evolution of life on this satellite of the past? Jasper wondered yet could only advance these theories which were no more fantastic than the living material which confronted him and provoked these thoughtful possibilities.</p>
        <p>He kept the white mist carefully confined and gradually came to lose interest in it. He had learned all he could about it.</p>

        <h4 class="space">IV</h4>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>IME came to drag more heavily. Jasper was rapidly exhausting his interests. And he caine to care less regarding his future. He took greater risks than ever, wandering farther afield in space suit among the moonlets than he had ever gone before. He was surprised to find that he had developed an instinct for directions in Saturn’s ring, and twice he recklessly put this development to the test by penetrating deeply into the darkness among the moonlets far from the last feeble rays of the ship’s lights. His only illumination came from the lights on his space suit. Both times, he returned unerringly and without hesitation. He had reached a point where he held his life cheaply. Even the chances of meeting the white mist among the moonlets held less fear for him. He longed for an actual human voice and more than that the closeness and affinity of humanity. The loneliness of the ring was awful. If he were only in empty space, it would be so much better. He could then see the stars, the same old constellations which differed to no appreciable notice out here on Saturn’s orbit than they did from the perspective of the inner worlds. He had known the solitude of the cosmic wastes, yet he had always had the companionship of the glittering stars on those past occasions. In Saturn’s ring, it was like being buried beneath innumerable huge tombstones in the darkness of an immense grave through wliich he was permitted to wander.</p>
        <p>He came to find companionship in the mute remains of the powdered bones of his long-dead comrades aboard the City of Fomar, and he felt himself longing to join them. This led to an uncomfortable suggestion which Jasper immediately put forth from his mind before it gained a foothold. He shrugged and drew himself together to face things and carry on. As long as his sanity and balance of mind remained, he would do so, he knew.</p>
        <p>Jasper’s moroseness, however, grew upon him. It came to invade the peace of his sleep. One night, finally, he did not sleep at all. Night to Jasper was merely his sleeping period of a studied earthly arrangement. It was night whenever he turned the lights off. This time, however, he laid awake through it. An uneasiness possessed him, a familiar feeling, so familiar as to cause him to look out into the darkness for a sign of the white menace. But it was not there unless it lurked hidden behind the nearby moonlets, and Jasper knew that this was not the way of it. His nerves and imagination were playing him tricks.</p>
        <p>A ghastly discovery made during his following waking schedule, however, revealed the cause of his uneasiness. His nerves and imagination had not been playing him tricks. The white mist was close by but not outside the hermitage where he had looked for it. He was met by a large, gray cloud which thrust a misty pedicle at him when he went into the storeroom for food supplies. Jasper’s overwrought nerves snapped at this evil discovery, and he shrieked as he found himself momentarily fixed to the spot, his dilating eyes taking in the grim circumstances in a glance. He ran from the storeroom and securely fastened the steel door, carrying with him the horrible vision of the white mist inside the security of his hermitage. The broken container in which he had kept the imprisoned bit of radio-active life and the crushed and scattered food containers told a mute and condemning story. That small bit of life had broken loose, had fed upon and assimilated his food stores and had grown to these dangerous proportions. There was more of the radio-active life than he dared to tackle with a radium ray ejector. Only as a last resort would he do this.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">H</span>E pulled himself together. He must get rid of that white cloud. He decided to try and lure the stuff from the moonlet and into space, standing ready with one of the more powerful ray ejectors in case the plan failed to work. He reacted from using the ejector inside the hermitage unless it were necessary, for its use in the airlock of the space ship had been as destructive as the white mist.</p>
        <p>He put on his space suit, turned off the heat and air supply of the hermitage and proceeded to open both doors of the airlock. Then he opened the door leading into the storeroom and waited, drawn back into a far corner, a radium ray ejector held ready. The unwelcome tenant did not emerge. He glanced cautiously inside and saw it hovered over scattered cartons of his rummaged food supplies. Tins lay crushed with traces of oozing contents. He shot a weak charge into the gray mass. It churned, expanded, rose from its gluttonous repast and sent snaky streamers exploring for the source of the searing plague. A globule of the malign entity plunged at the doorway and Jasper fell back hastily, his ejector held ready. From the far wall, he saw the exploring piece of cloud pause on the threshold and examine it independently of the main mass which did not emerge. While he watched, he saw more of it appear from the storeroom, until he knew it to be joined and assembled in entirety once more. It moved into his living quarters leisurely in an explorative manner. He waited fascinatedly against the wall, hoping it would move to the open, inviting airlock ancbfind the freedom to which it was accustomed in space. He was prepared for it, too, in case it moved his way.</p>
        <p>Jasper sat there grimly vigilant to the vagaries of the cloud. He watched for it to come upon the opening passage and slide out into space. He saw it move along the wall nearer the airlock. He looked back to the storeroom doorway where a small remaining portion of the cloud lingered hesitatingly. He watched this laggard bit closely. When he next looked back at the airlock, his heart leaped in hopeful anticipation. A white streamer lay through the opening. An advance bit of the cloud had exploringly found the opening. He had often wondered how much telepathic impulse the scattered material possessed. He believed that the rest of the gray cloud would be apprised of this retreat into space and would join the exploring vanguard. That piece on the threshold of the storeroom had joined the main body.</p>
        <p>A puzzling difference suddenly claimed his attention. The mist which lay in the airlock was of the usual white consistency he had known. The cloud moving along the wall from the storeroom door was gray. A dawning horror of numbing realization seized him, and the slowly increasing volume of the white menace in the airlock justified his worst fears. This was no part of the gray cloud from the storeroom. It was coming into the hermitage from space, not leaving itl The white peril had returned 1 The gray cloud in the storeroom had by some mysterious means of communication called its kindred from its scattered lair among the moonlets of the ring —and the deadly legion had responded.</p>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">J</span>ASPER aroused himself to stagger to the airlock and try to close it against the destroying forces which threatened him. At these quick moves on his part, a corresponding alacrity was aroused on the part of the incoming mist which suddenly ballooned and gushed inside so swiftly that Jasper’s ray ejector hastily brought into play could not cope with and destroy it in fast enough quantities for him to reach the airlock and close it. A white wall expanded and struck him a buffeting blow which knocked him across the room. The white mist bore down on him more leisurely as he scrambled up and brought the ray ejector into play, his back against the wall.</p>
        <p>Tongues of white death leaped out and touched him, bringing a frenzy of ecstatic, tingling horror wherever the white gas even touched his space suit. The radium ray disintegrated and destroyed the white pedicles while the main mass pushed forward to crush in closer. With sweat streaming from him, and in exhaustion, Jasper fantically fought his losing fight. Delirium partly obscured his reason, yet in no way hampered his effectiveness. He swung the ray ejector like a demented demon in the pits of Hell. Holes and swaths were burned from the solidity of the cloud, but these quickly filled once more. The tingling contacts became more frequent. Jasper’s arms felt like lead. He felt his senses reeling and he desperately held on. There were flitting moments when his vision became obscured and the white cloud seemed to turn red. His knees suddenly buckled in under him, and he slid to the floor against the wall in a sitting position, the ray ejector waving more leisurely. The white cloud rushed in above where his head had been. His gasping breath hissed like steam in the helmet of his space suit.</p>
        <p>He wondered vaguely why the white mist was not overcoming him. He was becoming less frantic in his efforts. His motions became mechanical. He was becoming too weak to defend himself any longer. He knew what that would mean, but even his will power clamored for a rest, a long, never-ending rest. The white mist seemed to be fading. It was retreating. He was able to distinguish objects in his living quarters. He saw the white mist pouring rapidly out through the airlock, and he wondered about it vaguely. Oblivion came to his exhausted body. The ray ejector dropped from nerveless fingers, its deadly power shut off as the pressure on the trigger was released.</p>
        <p>Jasper never knew how long he laid there in his space suit, an easy victim for the return of the white mist. The hermitage was permeated with the coldness of space. The lights still burned. Both inside and outside entrances of the airlock yawned open. When he came to his senses, he looked around. He rose and staggered to the storeroom threshold. He looked inside. The white menace had left entirely. Appallingly little was left of the food stores, however. Death by starvation was inevitable. Still, Jasper was glad. He preferred to die some other way. Slowly, he went about in space suit making temporary repairs.</p>
        <p>He wondered why the white mist had abandoned the hermitage and its vicinity so suddenly, yet there were many unexplainable mysteries of the strange stuff which were beyond his understanding.</p>
        <p>He paused suddenly in his job of fusing and welding. Lights shone outside his hermitage. He had not switched on the lights of the derelict, and he wondered what had made them illuminate. lie stared through the double ports of the airlock. Another space ship cruised alongside the City of Fomar. Indescribable emotions seized Jasper as he shakily entered his airlock and closed the inner door. Through his mind flitted an answer to the strange behavior of the white mist. When this strange ship had penetrated the ring, it lead caused a major disturbance. The white mist had become aroused and had descended upon the derelict and the hermitage—and had left at the closer approach of the space ship in order to attack the greater attraction. Jasper saw, }iow-ever, that no mist accompanied the strange ship.</p>
        <p>He fumbled with the outer door and flung it open. Giving a kick with his feet, he sped through the vacuum to the side of the space ship. He found the outer door of the airlock invitingly opened. Air was sent rushing into the compartment he entered. Faces, human beings, were regarding him in friendly wonder. The inner door was opened, and a man helped turn back the space helmet from his scraggly gray hair. Jasper Jezzan gazed wildly about him at the faces of the men, too overcome momentarily to speak. , With tears streaming down his face, he at last found his voice.</p>
        <p>“Folks!” he cried, tremulously. “Folks! Real folks at last!”</p>

    </div>
</body>

</html>