<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1>THE VIZIGRAPH</h1>

    <p class="fp"></p>

    <p class="fp"><b>MARTIANS, Venusians, Saturnians, Neptunians and fellow citizens—you’re invited, all of you, to vizigraph in your messages. Kicks, kudos, bombs and bouquets—our expert operator can take it. All PS asks is that you make your vizigrams helpful and interesting.</b></p>

    <p>Well, <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> fans, you were the judges. Based on your selections, the winning letters in the summer issue were by Mrs. Ginger Zwick, 4 S J Ackerman, and Leon DeMarlo respectively. We’ve sent them along the original illustration of their choice in that issue. Now here’s1-a new batch-coming up. Again, as before, writers of the three best letters, in your estimation, will have their choice of an original drawing in this issue. So pick your three favorites and send their names along to us.</p>

    <p>To No. 1—Ginger Zwick: drawing by Lynch.</p>
    <p>To No. 2—4 S J Ackerman: drawing by Paul.</p>
    <p>To No. 3—Leon De Mario: drawing by Smalle.</p>

    <h2>THEY ALWAYS SEEM TO, DON’T THEY?</h2>
    <p class="noindent"><i>Editor</i>, <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span><br />New York City<br /><span class="smallcaps">Cheerio Chum</span></p>
    <p>In the current Summer issue, Tom Wright brings up a point that may well-nigh astound some people—there are fans who buy <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> solely for its departments, and for their files, who will <i>never</i> read a story in it! The large majority of readers do not do this, of course; it would be foolish to assume this and edit the magazine accordingly. I estimate perhaps one hundred readers, or more, do this. They do it for one of three reasons: they absolutely haven’t time to read the magazine, or they don’t believe the stories are worth the time it takes, or they simply are collectors and never read stories. That this group exists, I am positive, for to a certain degree I am one of them.</p>
    <p>A second number, perhaps from five hundred to five thousand, read the departments immediately upon getting the magazine, and then lay the issue aside until anywhere from a week to a year later to read the stories. I definitely belong to this group. It is for this group that the departments should be edited, together with the first group above. The rest of them either read whatever they find stuck in the back of the magazine, or ignore “such trash” altogether, either believing them to be editorially written, or youngsters of early teen age with a printer’s ink complex. Very few investigate, and go through life ignorant of knowledge they could have gained for nothing.</p>
    <p>Many improvements were noted in this issue. The cover is the first. The getting away from covers with a “comic book” touch was badly needed. Drake seems to be doing a fine job with such work as this, so see no need for changing to other and more-often-in-print artists that some people demand in every magazine in existence. I have an idea that the <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> heading, once registered, costs money to change, so I suppose it’s useless to ask for it to be improved, eh? I should like to see the second planet dropped (from Stories) and the stars removed altogether; although for the name itself and the manner of presentation it is hard to beat. Publishers who, upon planning a new magazine, at once begin reviewing mentally all the amazing, astonishing, and wonder-words they can use for a title, amuse me. <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> seems a good solid name, no pun intended.</p>
    <p>Should definitely like to see trimmed edges. You surely have some idea on how this improves appearance, which comes first, and makes it easier for collectors, which comes second. It takes more time and money to be sure, but with quarterly publication at twenty cents, I don’t imagine it will bankrupt the firm.</p>
    <p>In passing it is amusing to note that while the chap on the cover is warmly dressed, as it is presumed he would be on another planet; the gal parades around in bare legs. They always seem to, don’t they? I have a capital idea I would like to see done on a cover, and inasmuch as <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span> is always showing one scene; nasty men attacking Earth couple at door of their ship, it would go well here. With a story laid accordingly, have your cover artist paint a scene showing a Martian couple poised in flight at the door of <i>their</i> spaceship while a howling mob of enraged Earthlings attack <i>them</i>. The idea is <i>so</i> novel that I would have to ask a royalty if you use it: I demand the original of the painting.</p>
    <p>The interior illustrations are better too. On pages 2—3 is the first Paul I have seen in many a green moon that I actually cared for. Usually he provokes me. The two new artists are noted, and I favor Don Lynch, by farl Notice the startling similarity to bits of his picture to work done by one of the Isip brothers in an astounding book of unknown name. Will welcome plenty of him!</p>
    <p>In closing, to the “Vizigraph.” Your method of handling this department, and answering letters therein, is novel. Give the originals to Tom Wright, Ginger Zwick and Ackerman (in that order) for the best letters this issue. In hopes, my choice of originals lie with Lynch and a good Paul, so all my relatives and friends all over the nation had better say “Ye Gods, isn’t Tucker’s letter a pip!” when they write you, or I’ll settle with them when I meet them at the Convention... ohmigosh, I almost forgot what I had in mind when I began writing.</p>
    <p>The Illini Fantasy Fictioneers (sponsors) cordially invite you, and all the readers, authors and illustrators of Planet to attend the 1940 Science Fiction Convention to be held in Chicago this coming Labor Day. We want to see you there. And I will gladly send inquirers circulars telling them all about it.</p>
    <p class="right"><span class="smallcaps">Bob Tucker</span>,<br />P. O. Box 260,<br />Bloomington, Ill.</p>

    <h2>WOMEN ARE WARMER</h2>

    <p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Mr. Tucker:</p>
    <p>Women are warmer-blooded than men, didn’t you know? That’s why our cover heroines are able to parade around in bare legs while their futuristic escort must go more heavily attired. In spite of all this, we have no intention of emphasizing the sex angle in <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span>.</p>
    <p>As for your suggestion that we have our artist do a scene showing a Martian couple poised in flight at the door of a spaceship while a mob of enraged Earthlings attack them—well, it’s a novel idea, all right, but, I ask you, is it sound?</p>
    <p>But turning to more serious matters, I looked into the business of trimmed edges as you and Mr. Wright suggested but the cost of this refinement is astoundingly high and the budget can’t stand it. The only way we would be able to mine this money would be by paying less for the stories and I doubt if trimmed edges warrants anything like that.</p>
    <p>It’s fine that you like Don Lynch’s drawings. I hope you’ll agree with me that another new find, Rosenthal, in this issue, is also a welcome addition.</p>
    <p class="right">Cordially,<br /><span class="smallcaps">The Editor.</span></p>

    <h2>PHOOIE ON DEPARTMENTS...</h2>

    <p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>Quote—The X-87 was a red shambles—unquote. Therein is contained my chief criticism of Planet Stories, summer issue. In every other respect the magazine is greatly improved. Beautiful damsels in distress are notably absent (so sorry, Mr. DeMarlo) and the stories are well-plotted.</p>
    <p>I particularly liked “Asteroid H 277—Plus” and “Sphere of the Never-Dead”; the latter in spite of its title. “The Forbidden Dream” is out of Rocklynne’s usual line, and definitely proves that he is not in a rut.</p>
    <p>I enjoyed “The Cosmic Juggernaut.” It is better than most of Fearn's super-colossals. Like most of his stories, it suffers from careless errors of fact, such as the transformation of half of a sphere of 8,000 miles diameter into a sphere 4,000 miles in diameter without change of average density, and without throwing any of the original hemisphere away.</p>
    <p>Mr. DeMarlo’s letter is interesting. In one respect we agree. He says no one can tell him what he likes (which is as it should be)—well, no one can tell me what I like either. Obviously my dinky B. S. doesn’t rank with his imposing educational attainments; still, I think I can correct one misapprehension of his. He apparently thinks “education” and “intellect” are synonyms. They aren’t, as a reference to Webster’s well-known work will prove.</p>
    <p>The editor is right, Mr. Wright, you’re wrong. Phooie on departments! The Vizigraph and P. S.’s Feature Flash are both satisfactory and sufficient.</p>
    <p>And now, Mr. Editor, I would like very much to have Don Lynch’s drawing; failing that, Paul’s for “Space-Liner X-87,” or Eron’s for “The Cosmic Juggernaut,” would be appreciated.</p>
    <p class="right">Sincerely,<br /><span class="smallcaps">D. B. Thompson,</span><br />3136 Q St.,<br />Lincoln, Neb.</p>

    <h2>FUTURE LOOKED PRETTY BAD...</h2>

    <p class="right">Red Rock, Ontario, Canada,<br />June 6, 1940.</p>

    <p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Sir:</p>
    <p>Congratulations! The third issue of <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> places it among the best magazines in the science-fiction field.</p>
    <p>At first the future of <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> looked pretty bad; the first issue was terrible, worse than the average first ediiton. The stories appeared to have been written by authors of “Westerns,” who simply substituted ray guns for six shooters, and space ships for horses. The errors were innumerable, especially in the story “War Lords of the Moon.” Davies seems to be under the impression that the Moon has an atmosphere. Also his extraordinary rocket ships travel by far too slow. The ship in the story “Expedition to Pluto” is also too slow. At the speed stated 7200 M.P.H.</p>
    <p>the trip to Pluto would take several years, not eight months. While on the subject of speed, unless my calculations are wrong, the velocity of escape, seven miles per second, comes out to 25,000 miles per hour, not 2500 M.P.H. as several of your stories, and Mr. Thompson state.</p>
    <p>The second issue was a considerable improvement over the first, and could be classed as fair. The three short stories were the best in the issue. The rest of the stories were mediocre. The addition of the departments was a great improvement.</p>
    <p>The third issue easily comes into the “good” class. (Make sure the next issue makes the “excellent” class.) The Forbidden Dream and The Cosmic Juggernaut were excellent; the best I have read anywhere for some time. They are by far the best two stories you have published to date. Let’s have some more of that quality.</p>
    <p>Your two new artists Lynch and Smalley are very good. The illustration by Lynch, for Forbidden Dream, is exceptionally good. Let them do more of the illustrations, and get rid of Eron. And how about a change in the theme of the cover? Each cover to date depicts a man in a glass helmet rescuing an overexposed blonde from the clutches of a horde of sub-men. By all means keep Planet Stories a quarterly, as Chester Payfer suggests. The market is already flooded with “cheap” science-fiction due to the mass production he mentions. Give us fewer issues, but better stories, and make Planet Stories a magazine to be looked forward to.</p>
    <p>Lastly let me put in the well-known plea for trimmed edges. Trimmed edges improve the appearance of a magazine more than anything else.</p>
    <p class="right">Yours truly,<br /><span class="smallcaps">Fred Hurter, Jr.</span></p>

    <h2>PLANET—GOING UP!</h2>

    <p class="right">174 Windsor Place<br />Brooklyn, New York<br />May 4, 1940.</p>
    <p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>The immediate reason for writing this letter is to commend you for your quite un-editor-like frankness in saying (on page 127 of the Summer, 1940, issue of PS) “I don’t feel the stories are anywhere nearly as good as they might be. They are the best we are able to get at present, but they’ll improve as we go along.”</p>
    <p>Well, sir, it’s always been my contention that the big thing about a magazine is not where it <i>is</i>, but whether it’s moving <i>up</i> or moving <i>down</i>. You just move <i>up</i> and you’ve got one steady reader right here.</p>
    <p>There are two pet peeves I’ve got as far as science-fiction stories are concerned. The first is cheap blood-and-thunder. It gripes me to have a yarn full of flaming guns and dashing heroes with hair-breadth escapes cluttering up the pages. I have always thought that the science-fiction reader was just a <i>little</i> bit above the usual pulp-magazine clientele. I’m sure he can get along without the kind of tripe you find in each of the seventy-five million damn comic magazines that are drowning all the newsstands. Let’s not have heroes that compete with Superman, Steelman, Rubberman, Garbageman, etc. A few of us are actually older than twelve. A few of us have even gone to school. A few of us are even intelligent. In fact, just take notice that the most successful stf. magazine on the stands today is the one which has the least use for hero-villain junk.</p>
    <p>My second pet peeve is well known to readers of stf. reader columns. It is this gosh-awful love interest that goes up the pages of too many stf. magazines. Good Lord 1 If we wanted it, wouldn’t</p>
    <p>we be reading “True Confessions?” And conversely, if we read science-fiction, do we want love-interest? Leastwise, do we want love-interest which, in quality and nature, is on a par with the strip-tease, as far as edification and value is concerned. In short, must we have women cavorting through the pages dressed in little or nothing just because it seems to be the general idea that the only way to get a reading public is to play for the gutter? Not in science-fiftion 1 Of course, there is this in what you say. It’s always hard to start off a magazine and, especially in science-fiction, good stories aren’t to be picked up on the sidewalk. In fact, you might say that if I’m so anxious to get wonderful stories with decent plots and a minimum of cheap action and cheaper love-interest, why not try writing some myself.</p>
    <p>Well, I do. But so far, I’ve submitted nothing to PS for two good reasons. One—I’m busy at school right now and writing languishes. However, this objection will soon be removed for the term is over in three weeks. Two—I have the notion (I hope I’m wrong) that one of your editorial requirements of a story is that it contains a girl and that it be fairly saturated with love interest. Well, I’ve got the courage of my convictions. I think love-interest has no place in stf. except when carefully and realistically handled.</p>
    <p>I don’t like “slop” and I won’t write “slop.” If it’s any use submitting stories which either contain no women, or if they do, contain women only in an inoffensive manner—you’ll be hearing from me one of these days.</p>
    <p>Personally, I think you’ll see it the fans’ way on love-interest. Walton’s yarn in the summer issue contained no females and lost nothing by it and Rummer’s yarn contained a girl handled in a conservative and decent manner and actually gained by it.</p>
    <p>But Cummings actually has a sixteen-year-old heroine with all the trimmings. Oh, Lord!</p>
    <p class="right smallcaps">Isaac Asenion.</p>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Ed.’s Note:</span> Mr. A—is mistaken. PS. has no formula, demands no love interest. Only real requirement : A darned good story.</p>

    <h2>WANTED: MOREY’S HEAD ON A PLATTER</h2>

    <p class="right">414 Washington Ave.<br />Charleroi, Pa.,<br />June 15, 1940.</p>
    <p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>Will you please dislodge Morey from your magazine? If by some chance this cannot be done, MAKE HIM TAKE HIS TIME WHEN HE DRAWS! Never in my long experience have I seen such utterly putrid illustrating (if that’s what you call it). At his present standard, I feel sure he would make quite a hit in the funnies!</p>
    <p>Still speaking of illustrators, please give Paul and Eron a pat on the back for their work in the summer number of PS. It was wonderful, to say the least. Incidentally, how about getting Alex Schromburg and Mark Marchioni, for the mag? Schromburg is a fairly new artist, with an extremely interesting style. Marchioni has always been a favorite of mine. I’m sure you will find their work interesting, if you but give them a chance....</p>
    <p>I found the stories in the summer issue pf the mag, on the whole quite good. But here they are according to their merit.</p>
    <ol>
        <li>The Cosmic Juggernaut by John Russel Fearn</li>
        <li>The Dark Swordsmen of Saturn by Neil R. Jones</li>
        <li>Space Liner X-87 by Ray Cummings</li>
        <li>Exiles of the Three Red Moons by Carl Selwyn</li>
        <li>Sphere of the Never-Dead by Sam Carson!</li>
        <li>Asteroid H277—Plus by Harry Walton</li>
        <li>Star Pirate by Frederick A. Kummer, Jr.</li>
        <li>The Forbidden Dream by Ross Rocklynne</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Well, that’s that. See you again sometime....</p>
    <p class="right">With best regards,<br /><span class="smallcaps">Blaine R. Dunmire.</span></p>

<h2>NOT BEYOND BELIEF...</h2>

<p class="right">New York, New York,<br />May 13, 1940</p>
<p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Editor:</p>
<p>And you are one of the few editors of stf. mags that I can use that salutation with and mean the first word especially. Either you are having an exceptionally good run of luck or you are a very wise man and know the many and varied desires of the queer species, stfans. Beyond belief, possibly you are one of that species yourself. Stranger things have happened. And I’ll tell you first of all, if this letter is a winning one (it won’t be because the readers will probably not see it) reserve any Paul or Morey pic for me.</p>
<p>The first three issues of your mag I have before me, and behind me I have about fifteen hours of very thrilling reading. For a jaded fan, I can really say that the majority of the tales in <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> thrill me as no other mag now on the market does. The first cover was terrible, the second fair, and the third, perfect. Only bad point is that they are all the same, only with slightly different hero, pursued heroine and pursuers. How about Paul and Morey covers? I bought No. 1 only to join my files. I actually pounced on No. 2 when I noted those grand Morey pics. The dealer is still gasping over the way I tore the mag from his hands upon seeing <i>Paul</i>. Again I say this isn’t all luck but simply wise editorship. Even an artist that has done only poor work in other mags, Eron, surpasses himself with real stf. art in the summer issue.</p>
<p>Reynold’s first novel was very good, but his second equally poor. The rest in No. 1 only fair. Illustrations terrible. But for my files, would you please give names of the artists of the first issue? Issue two had two good shorts and one well-written novelet by Repp. The rest were only fair. Morey is perfect and his full-page pics are the type that should be exclusively used, on the right-hand page preferably. Cummings will drive me insane if he pens another atom tale. The first fifty were sufficient. Another Drake cover, but pretty good.</p>
<p>The third issue, and best, brings Paul with a wonderful pic. For this you should be decorated. Its story, by Cummings, was a welcome relief from the above complaint. Rocklynne’s “lette” was pleasing and had swell Lynch pic. <i>Covers without stories are taboo.</i> Never, never again. Selwyn writes good adventure. Fearn’s <i>Cosmic Juggernaut</i> is the best thing in the issue and one of finest things I’ve read yet. The Jones yarn is almost duplicate of another in a different mag, even to title and pic. The three shorts were well presented and the science in them was explained interestingly. Pics good.</p>
<p>Now I will give my ideas on how the magazine should look. Everyone else is doing it. One novel of 40 pages, three lettes of 15 pages each, and two shorts of 10 pages each. All pics one full page and framed as were <i>Space Flame</i>, <i>Dictator of Time</i>, <i>Infinite Smallness</i>, <i>Three Red Moons</i>, etc. Book-jackets like <i>Forbidden Dream</i> acceptable. The two dep’ts. now in use are fine and quite enough. I notice that the more recent stf. mags, unlike the “big three” and their companions, have an aura of dignity and decorum about them. No monstrous blurbs, massive print, sloppy pics due to misplacement, and numerous quizzes, questions, puzzles ad nauseam. Increase the two you have, though. Cover should always be a scene from a story in the mag, preferably the novel. The title of the magazine is especially sane and the fan does not feel like an idiot when asking for it. The publication should stay quarterly, or possibly change to bi-monthly. Too many mags of this type of fiction are now disappearing or becoming cheap, so stay on the safe side. Why get Wesso and Schneeman? They are both doing the worst work of their careers at present. Finley would be welcomed, but he does little stf. work and so seems improbable.</p>
<p>Congratulations to Mr. DeMarlo and Mrs. Zwick. I think it is a draw for the first prize. Those “fans” they fried are constant groaners, and I purposely did not write sooner in order to get out of the way of this type of “Fan.” You were much too hard on poor Mr. Wright. Is there any association that 4SJ does <i>not</i> belong to at present?</p>
<p>May you keep up the constant success you have so far displayed by giving us more Paul and Morey, and on the covers, too. And may I win an illustration.</p>
<p class="right"><span class="smallcaps">Charles Hidley,</span><br />2541 Aqueduct Avenue,<br />New York, N. Y.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Ed.’s Note</span>: Artists in first issue were Sherman and Fawcett.</p>

<h2>THE TWO-BITS IS COVERED</h2>
<p class="smallcaps noindent">Dear Editor:</p>
<p>After reading over those two letters I sent you, I’ll bet two-bits you get letters saying “Who does that punk Wright think he is? Tell you how to edit a mag, bet he couldn’t do any better,” and I guess they’ll be right, but as I said, don’t take me too seriously.</p>
<p>There’s one thing to be said in your favor, I like your mag much better now, and if you can win over a reader that didn’t like your mag in the first place, you’re pretty good! Congrats!</p>
<p>The best story this issue, I think, is Rocklynne’s “The Forbidden Dream.” It has something. For a newcomer, or a pen name, Sam Carson is pretty good, too.</p>
<p>Ackerman’s letter was best. And because I want an original, I’ll say mine was second. Give third to Dick Burns.</p>
<p>I see you have a thing called Fan Mags, boy, is that incomplete! Enclosed is what I think is a complete list of all the fan mags, with a short review. Hope you can use it, if not I’d appreciate you sending it back.</p>
<p>Paul is a very good addition to your staff, Drake has improved a little on the cover.</p>
<p>Keep improving, lots of luck.</p>
<p class="right">Cordially,<br /><span class="smallcaps">Tom Wright</span>,<br />R.F.D. 1, Box 129,<br />Martinez, Calif.</p>

<p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Ed.’s Note</span>: Sam Carson is no pen-name. Merely a new writer. Many thanks, Mr. Wright, for your open-minded point of view, also for complete list of fan mags which appears in Feature Flash dept.</p>
</body>

</html>