<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1 class="flash">PS’s Feature Flash</h1>

    <p class="fp"><b><span class="dropcaps">F</span>LASHING you the highlights on the men you’ve met in the preceding pages—those cosmic-minded writers and illustrators who help to nourish Planet Stories.</b></p>

    <h2>THE AUTHOR—</h2>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="dropcaps">I</span>F it hadn’t been for the long-lamented crash of ’29, Ed Earl Repp, author of “Buccaneer of the Star Seas,” would very probably be unknown to these pages. Concerning the forces that pushed him into the writing game, Mr. Repp says:</p>
    <p>“The crash of ’29 changed the course of many lives into divers channels. When it happened, I was conducting a successful advertising and publicity business in Los Angeles, and almost overnight my accounts froze solid. Having a litereary background, and ability of sorts, I looked about for a new field for developing it.</p>
    <p>“Always more or less scientific mentally, although never having read a science-fiction magazine up to that time, I espied a fascinating cover one day, bought the book and read it. The contents intrigued me and were mighty good. The idea came to me that if other writers could profit by producing that kind of copy, so could I.</p>
    <p>“And so I salvaged a typewriter from my defunct agency, went to work and turned out the two part serial “The Radium Pool” which Hugo Gerns-back, often referred to as the father of science-fiction, thought was good enough to justify purchase and an order for twenty-four stories a year from me for his brand-new WONDER STORIES and AIR WONDER STORIES.</p>
    <p>“So whatever the crash did for other people, it started me on a new and I hope permanent writing career. I’ve written fourteen books published here and abroad, and have written originals and screen plays for eighteen motion pictures for Warner Bros., Columbia, Universal and Republic. When I started writing I thought 1,000 words a day was a nice day’s work. But now my regular schedule calls for 3,000 words daily. That’s a million a year of nearly all types of pulp fiction, western, fantasy, adventure, love, published under various by-lines. I’m 39, like to hunt and fish and have a swell time generally following a hobby of archaeology and paleontology.”</p>

    <h2>THE ARTIST—</h2>
    <p class="noindent"><i><span class="dropcaps">P</span>LANET</i> is pretty proud of its new find-of-the-month in Leon Rosenthal (“Quest on Io,” and “Domain of Zero”). Rosenthal went to the Yale art school, the Art Students' League and Pratt. Following this, he spent some time on ranches in New Mexico, California and Utah. He hopes to do illustrating in the big national magazines, and we don’t think it will be long before he does. But we hope to hang onto him for a few issues at least before he soars.</p>

    <h2>FAN MAGS—</h2>
    <p class="noindent"><span class="dropcaps">M</span>R. TOM WRIGHT, in the VIZIGRAPH, deplores the rather weak little list of fan mags that we published in the summer issue. Accordingly, he has been kind enough to give us a comprehensive compilation of those publications so vital to the enjoyment of stf fans.</p>

    <h4 class="space">Reviewed by Tom Wright</h4>

    <p class="space revindent">MERCURY @ 5¢ from J. J. Fortier, 1836—39th Avenue, Oakland, Calif. The only west coast fan newspaper. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">STARDUST @ 20¢ from W. Lawrence Ham-ing, 2609 Argyle St., Chicago, 111. Printed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">SPACEWAYS @ 10¢ from Harry Warner, Jr., 303 Bryan Place, Hagerstown, Md. Features fan material and poetry. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE COMET @ 10¢ from Tom Wright, R.F.D. #1, Box 129, Martinez, Calif. Contains fan articles, amature fiction, photos. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">HORIZONS @ 2 for 15¢ from Harry Warner, Jr., 303 Bryan Place, Hagerstown, Md. Amature fiction. Hectographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">SCIENCE FICTION WEEKLY @ 5¢ from Robert W. Lowndes, 2574 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. The weekly newspaper covering all important stf. happenings. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">LE ZOMBIE @ 3 for 10¢ from Bob Tucker, Box 260, Bloomington, 111. The humor mag of science-fiction. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">MIDWEST NEWS &amp; VIEWS @ 5¢ from Mark Reinsberg, 3156 Cambridge Ave., Chicago, 111. Covers the Mid West news. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">SHANGRI-LA @ 10¢ from Box 6475 Metropolitan Station, Los Angeles, Calif. The L. A. club publication. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">NEW. FANDOM @ $1.00 per year membership. From 31-51 41st Street, Long Island City, N. Y. The official organ of NEW FANDOM. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE ROCKET @ 15¢ from Walt Daugherty, 1039 W. 39th Street, Los Angeles, Calif. Articles on Egyptology, a feature story and many other articles. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">SCIENTI-SNAPS @ 10¢ from Walter E. Mar-conette, 2709 East Second Street, Dayton, Ohio. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">FANTASCIENCE DIGEST @ 15¢ from Robert A. Madle, 333 E. Belgrade Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">POLARIS @ 10¢ from Paul Freehafer, 404 S. Lake Ave., Pasadena, Calif. Weird stories and articles. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">FANTASY DIGEST @ 10¢ from Ted Dikty, 3136 Smith St., Fort Wayne, Ind. Articles, humor, fiction. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE ALCHEMIST @ 10¢ from Lew Martin, 1258 Race St., Denver, Colo. Hectographed &amp; Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE VOICE OF THE IMAGI-NATION @ 103 from Forrest J. Ackerman, Box 6475 Metropolitan Station, Los Angeles, Calif. The fans forum of letters. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">SWEETNESS &amp; LIGHT @ 10¢ from Russ Hodgkins, 1903 W. 84th Place, Los Angeles, Calif. Satire. Mimeographed.</p>
    <p class="revindent">THE FUTURIAN @ 4 for 25¢ from J. Michael Rosenblum, 4, Grange Terrace, Chapeltown, Leeds 7, England. Mimeographed.</p>

    <p class="space">Space prevents the printing of the remainder of the list. These will appear in the next issue.—Ed.</p>
</body>

</html>