<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="story">
    <h1>EXILES OF THE DESERT STAR</h1>
    <h2><i>By Ross Rocklynne</i></h2>

    <p class="blurb"></p>
It waa murder. Murder among the asteroids. Hallmeyer had orders to transform small Elron’s brisk atmosphere to krypton. It meant killing that last gallant handful of royal exiles as surely as if his hand held a ray-gun.
I SIDNEY HALLMEYER, was more scientist than diplomat, yet I saw at once, when the president of the Tellurian Science Research Institute called me into his office, that in this new venture I would play the latter role more than the former.
“Sid,” he said, after I had taken a seat, stretching my extra long legs out in front of me, “after the successful part you played in the Ganymede affair, the Board of Directors seems to have got the idea that it can depend on you in any delicate matters concerned with space outside Earth. Yes, I know how you felt about stealing that weapon from Ganymede, but that’s neither here nor there—you succeeded. So now you’ve got another job involving the transference of your own personality from your body to the body of another.”
He smiled; I smiled too, in sickly fashion. I lit a cigarette and went behind a smoke barrage.
I said: “I suppose it’s another case of being deprived of all my scientific knowledge.”
“No. On the contrary. You will need your science. As a matter of fact, your being the head of the Electrical Research Department has acted to cinch this job for you. You see, there is a small planet out there in the asteroid belt, a 300 mile diameter planet which was captured by the Sun about fifteen years ago. It belongs to the United States; Parkinson, in his legendary flight to Pluto ten years ago, having planted our Flag there.”
He paused, his steady, wise eyes holding mine.
“You see, Sid,” he said slowly, “that planet belongs to the United States. Whoever happens to be there now, doesn’t belong. Your job is first to convince them that by right of eminent domain, they must get off or suffer the consequences.”
My heart sank. I said: “Who are
they, and what are the consequences?"
My superior tapped a pencil on his broad desk. He seemed to have difficulty holding my eyes. I suspected he was being ashamed of himself.
He said: “There are about fifteen of them—exiles from another universe. They were the ruling heads of a great imperii empire which embraced who knows how many solar systems a great number of light years away. They were dethroned by revolution, placed in eternal sleep by a secret process, to awaken only when the light of a hot Sun should strike their world. That light did strike their world, after it had traveled for thousands of years through black, cold, uncharted space. They awoke, and commenced to live their quiet, uneventful life, dreaming of glories that were gone and done with forever. These past fifteen years they have lived there, awaiting only the extinction that must soon overcome them; for their sleep, as it was intended, has robbed them of the ability to propagate.”
“I see,” I muttered, though I didn’t really. “And they have to get off, or suffer the consequences.”
“Yes.” He resumed carefully: “The consequences to be asphyxiation—by krypton gas.”
He got up and walked to the window, shaking his fine head, and clicking his tongue. Then he faced me again.
“Space travel, Sid, is on the upgrade. Soon it will be a commonplace matter to go to Pluto. There is one big stumbling block, however: The lack of means of communication. Radio waves cannot be forced across the great open spaces between the planets. There is only one answer: a signpost in space! Do you see what I mean ?”
“No,” I said, quite truthfully; yet even as he said it, I was beginning to suspect the truth.
He completed my thoughts: “Elron—

which is the name the fifteen inhabitants have given their planetoid—is entirely covered with a layer of quartz about twenty feet thick. The rest of the planetoid is solid nickel iron; which accounts for the fact that it has a gravity three tenths that of Earth, and an atmospheric pressure of five pounds to the square inch.
“The atmosphere is breathable for them, and will be breathable for you when you transfer bodies. But it is your job, among other things, to change that atmosphere to krypton!”
“Krypton!” I echoed; and then I saw the whole thing. It was a mighty scheme, a colossal scheme, but cruel. I got to my feet, and started to open my mouth.
But my superior shook his head, in quiet warning. “That won’t do any good, Sid,” he said gently. “The Interplanetary Board has issued me my orders, and I have no choice but to issue them to you.”
I unclenched my fists then, and, knowing that I was accepting a job I didn’t like, I did just that.
And three days later when our expedition of seven, including Will Carrist, who had a rating of A-l inscribed on his pilot’s card, took off for Elron, there was nothing but unease in my heart.
THE asteroid belt is not as thickly populated as many people would believe. To date—this was June of 2121—only 4300, to give a round figure, have been tabulated. Those 4300 chunks of rock, ranging all the way from pea-size to satellite-size, are spread out in a great elliptical orbit around the Sun, just outside Mars’ orbit. The belt itself is a million miles broad on the average. A ship, therefore, can travel for thousands of miles, in many cases, and not even sight a single fragment of this planet-that-used-to-be; and consequently suffer small danger of catastrophe.
We had penetrated the Belt a good half-million miles, when our telescope observer reported that Elron had crossed the hairlines and was slanting down on its node with the orbit of the Belt. In an hour we would land.
I went to the pilot room, to give Carrist his instructions. He was sitting laconically at the instrument board, an under-average size man with broad shoulders and tremendous strength, rocky features. He was not equipped very well mentally, except that he was a natural-born pilot, people saying of him that he could calculate the mass of a planet clear up to nine decimals, just by the feel of fighting its gravity. He had long been my best friend, and felt much the same toward me.
He looked around toward me sullenly.
Then he turned away again.
“I don’t like this job,” he muttered. “I'm beginning to feel bad, Sid 1”
I said: "Buck up, Carrist. I’ve been reading up on that royal family. Some of their history has seeped out into the libraries. Yes, they are just sitting around and dreaming of past glory—but what glory it was! The Tsar’s regime in Old Russia didn’t hold a candle to it! You know what I mean? They treated their people like slaves. Their whole empire existed solely for their own amusement. They thought only of themselves. They believed in the Credo of Self. They would live only for themselves. When the great revolution came along, and they were dethroned, the people who exiled them had just that in mind. They sent them off in lonely space, to live for themselves! And that’s just what they’re doing. Quit worrying about it, Carrist. Whatever happens to them, they’ll be getting their just desserts.”
I slapped him on the back affectionately, my mind busy with the problem of landing.
He turned around toward me. “You believe that, Sid?”
I stared at him, suddenly nettled by his tone. “Of course, I believe it,” I said angrily. “Why else would I spout off like that?”
“To convince yourself, of course,” he snapped. He tossed his head. “Oh, never mind, I won’t bother with your convenient way of thinking. But it still seems to me like a dirty trick. Where do I put this crate down?”
I HELD my temper in check by gritting my teeth, staring at the back of his head. Of course, I believed what I had said! Since I had talked with my superior, I had read a book, History of the Elronians. Their philosophy, the reason for their exile, had been clearly, unequivocally stated. My first feeling, that of pity, had rapidly vanished. They had treated their own people like dogs, therefore, there was no reason why I should not do the same to them. But it irritated me to have Carrist interfere with my line of thought. It made me feel as if I were doing the wrong thing after all!
I swore under my breath, and put the matter from my mind, at least for the time being. I answered his question.
“Elron rotates,” I said, surlily. “The nickel iron core is likely to be closer to the surface at one of the poles. Take a turn around the planet, and whichever pole seems to offer the least difficulties for landing, that’s where we make our base. Then you and I will take the automobile out of the hold, and go over and get our bodies. And,” I added slowly, though already premonitions were gnawing deep into me, "see what we can do toward reasoning with the inhabitants.”
He cast me a glance that was eloquent with sardonic humor. Carrist apparently didn’t think it was going to be as easy as that. And I am afraid I didn’t either. With sinking heart, I watched the gleaming white disk that was Elron come slanting toward us, the details of her jagged, chaotic surface becoming more and more apparent to the naked eye. We spiraled once around the planet, and elected to land at what we arbitrarily designated the north pole. From this base, he would, with our special apparatus, transmute the oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen of the atmosphere into pure krypton.
Krypton—in which no organic creature can live!
CARRIST and I set the other men to unloading the complex transmuter, and the electrical equipment which would literally make of this strangely constructed planet a signpost in space. Then we readied ourselves for our trip to the Elronian Bureau of Transmitted Egos; and by 5 P. M. Earth Standard Time, our airtight automobile was threading its way around gaunt * quartz crags that thrust themselves against the blue-black sky, making its laborious way to the home of the exiled rulers of an empire that existed thousands of light years away, in a deep space that man had never penetrated.
In five hours, we had reached the village. I suppose it could be called a village, though it was just a circle of fantastically formed quartz huts surrounding a spired, medieval-looking castle. Everything was quiet, as I steered the airtight automobile along the smoothed-over lane that led to the domed building that was the Bureau of Transmitted Egos. But then, we hadn’t expected to see much life. There were only fifteen of them at the most, and they might be sleeping or eating or holding some sort of religious service.
We got out of the car, after putting helmets over our heads, to supply us with the air pressure we were used to. Above us, the blue-black sky was comfortless, dismal, and the pall of it settled into our faces and our voices. Unconsciously, we moved our leaden-soled shoes across the quartz walk with the minimum of noise. We walked in the open door of the Bureau. Everything was dark. We could barely see through the doors to either side of us, and caught vague glimpses of the fantastic machinery which rendered transference of one mind to another body.
“Nobody around,” Carrist said in a throaty whisper, looking ludicrous in his over-emphasis of caution.
“They probably don’t transfer bodies more than once in a year,” I agreed. “And then only for curiosity seekers. But you and I, at least, have to have bodies we can move around in, without bothering about space-suits. We’re going to be here for at least ten days.”
My teeth were beginning to chatter. Elron is even farther removed from the Sun than is Mars; and the Sun, a pale yellow disk, was even now settling behind the horizon.
We stood there indecisively. Then I snorted. We were legally entitled to bodies, by the rules the Interplanetary Board had set down. Why we should be scared to draw a deep breath, I didn’t know. Just because the bodies we would inhabit would belong to royalty was no reason we should be timid about acquiring them 1
I stepped up to the registration desk boldly, pulled the rope that dangled from the ceiling.
“Boom! Clang! Booooommmmm!”
The monstrous, full-throated sound was like blasphemy. It was like uttering sacrilege in a church of the dead. Involuntarily I leaped back, clutching Carrist’s arm. Carrist’s arm was shaking.
“Lord I” he breathed, white in the face.
I knew what he was thinking. That must have been a huge bell, much larger and more voluminous than the ones ordinarily used on these out of the way planets. It was as if the inhabitants of this dying race had an edge on us, as if they had cleverly given themselves the opportunity of pointing a quivering finger of wrath at us, accusing us of disturbing their peace.
Nor were we far wrong.
We heard the merest sound of a sandal scraping on quartz. Carrist and I involuntarily turned toward that sound. We saw a door opening slowly in the deep gloom. A figure stood outlined against the ghostly white of smooth-quartz walls. For a full minute, while we stood transfixed, hair raising on our scalps, the outlandish figure stood there, watching us.
Then, “Who disturbs the rest of the House of Immon Pongh?”
THE words were golden mellow, deep and flowing, accented with alienness. They were spoken in the universal tongue, as if the speaker had not had occasion to speak that tongue often.
Carrist chattered hoarsely, “Say something, Sid. S-something funny.”
It was the silliest thing in the world for me to stand there and gulp out:
“We—beg your pardon. We want some bodies. Two of them.”
Silence built. Then the being said, “Ahg 1”
He disappeared momentarily. A dim effulgence of light stole into being above us, growing in intensity until lengthening shadows faded away into nothing. Then the figure came into sight again. I got a shock that turned my blood cold. The creature was of human form, as we have discovered most intelligent beings. But there the resemblance was brought to an end.
This one was tall, perhaps seven feet, and his limbs were pipestems. He bent in the middle, and the eyes set in his death’s head face were round as saucers. We gave back a step, as he came toward us, slowly rubbing his great bony hands over each other. From the look in his eyes, and despite his fixed grin, I decided he was mad at us.
“You wish—bodiesf” he whispered.
“Royal bodies?” His eyes were fanatical.
I got hold of myself, and had the sense to get sore.
“Royal bodies, or any other kind you happen to have.” I snapped. “And we haven’t got much time to waste. To your business 1”
“At this hour?" he whispered. “When the princes and the princesses and the lords and the ladies and the Queen sleep? But then—” his hands fell to his sides, and something flickered in his eyes, “—but then, you have already awakened them from dreams of glory 1”
He turned into more of a human being now, clucking and whispering and whistling asthmatically to himself. He turned around to the shelves behind him, drew out two slips of paper and a pencil.
“Ahg!” he said, turning around toward us, and pushing the blanks out, staring at us with his unblinking eyes. “There is little we of Elron can do. Eh? We are trodden upon. We are forced to do these things, to humiliate ourselves, by a race which we consider less than dust! Yet it is our part to do nothing—thus says the Queen! It is our part to die, here upon strange Elron, so far from our lost empire! We will die soon enough, says the Queen, without bringing the wrath of the hated dogs down upon us. Let us live here, on this planet, the last remembrance of the space from which we came. And, says the Queen, each shall go back to the quartz tomb where he slept, when finally he sleeps—again.”	His eyes flickered.
“Sign, hated dogs of a filthy race!"
Carrist looked at me. I shrugged, grabbed up the pencil, scribbled out various unimportant facts on the blank, signed, shoved the blank back, and gave the pencil to Carrist. I was beginning to feel better every minute. If this being’s attitude was indicative of that of the whole race, we would have something to push back at us, and make us feel we were justified in our actions 1
“Now,” said the being, leering at us, “to the business of bodies. Ah, yes, I believe the Princes Togervi and Toganvi will submit to this disgrace. I shall call them 1”
With hooked hands, he grabbed the bell rope, and the air shook with that monstrous sound. I had the feeling the old
gander was telling us we had already dis- them, I knew I would never get over the turbed royalty, and this new disturbance strangeness.
was, therefore, our fault anyway.
We didn’t wait very long. The door pushed open, and two Elronians, garbed in pale yellow garments with trails that dragged the floor, appeared. They were, maybe, an inch taller than their older contemporary, but they stood upright, and the flesh of their bodies was firm and healthy, and they were even good-looking.
They eyed us coldly; then turned to the oldster.
“Must we submit to this filth from another planet?” said one.
"Ahg! So says the Queen! For who knows what injustices the creatures may practice on us if we do not do their will? Come 1”
The princes followed him as he hobbled away; I followed them. Carrist hesitated a moment, then grabbed my arm.
“Sid 1" he whispered anxiously. “Don’t you think maybe we better—”
But I shook his arm off impatiently, an act which I had reason to regret later. My confidence, my certainty that after all I hadmo reason for feeling pity for these people, was too strong. Truly, I little suspected that once our bodies were transferred to these others, it would constitute a dreadful weapon the Elronians could hold over us!
WE came forth into the room housing the involved mass of machinery which transmitted egos. I urged Carrist ahead of me, and with a despairing look on his face, he slowly climbed into the heavy metal chair. The oldster draped the harness over him, placed the metal cap on his head. One of the princes was treated similarly, his eyes filled with a quiet, contemptuous hate. There was so much superiority implied in his look, that I began to squirm.
The old Elronian then stepped to the instrument board, made various adjustments, tlien pulled a series of levers. At once the room sparked with light as the transferring machines went into action. Carrist and the Prince tensed, staring at each other with preternaturally wide eyes.
It was eerie, and it turned the blood to ice. Although many times before I had seen transferences, and participated in
Personalities, reduced to simple vibrations that sped along metal cables, impinging finally on the subject’s brain, there reorganizing themselves upon the ninety billion cells, and infinitely more giant molecules whose isomers, in their constant state of flux, create that which is known as thought!
It was over, and the next thing I knew, Carrist, in the prince’s body, was stumbling across the floor toward me. He was seven feet tall. I shuddered at him.
"Don’t look so uppity,” he snarled. “If you ask me, I got the best bargain!”
He was right, for the other prince was a shade thinner, and was missing three front teeth, as I discovered twenty minutes later. Too, he had a touch of rheumatism, or something, which could be either that or an indication of heart trouble. Ye gods 1
However, it was too late to start protestations, so Carrist and I carried our bodies into the storage room, put them on shelves, closed and sealed the glass doors behind them, and adjusted the air pressure to fifteen pounds. Our bodies were barely breathing, since they had only enough of the Princes’ consciousness to keep them alive. We had all the instincts, the acquired traits and the memories of the princes’ minds, in addition to our own minds. And we paid for it: 2,000 univers, 200 of which constituted the exorbitant tax the Elronians demanded.
The oldster wrote out his receipts in the usual triplicate form, pasting one on the glass which protected our bodies from the cold Elronian air, handing us another, and leaving the other in an almost unused receipt book.
Then rubbing his bony hands against each other so that they crackled like papyrus, he came toward us, his death's head face grinning.
“You will remember,” he intoned in his bell-like voice, “what will happen if the bodies are injured fatally, eh? You would lose your own bodies and all your possessions! Not that that would be payment for one of the royal bodies of the House of Immon Pongh, which you are now defiling. But it will make you beware 1”
He closed his lips with a smack. Then he backed up, and before I could say Io he was gone, and the lights were fading away.
I jumped forward one step. "Hey!”
But he didn’t hear me.
I turned to Carrist. “The nerve of that gander,” I said bitterly, rubbing my left arm. “If this body las heart trouble—”
Carrist snickered; then wiped the grin off his face as he saw the scowl growing on my own.
“Weren’t we going to talk with them about you-know-what ?”
I scowled. “I’m sick of this place. Let’s get back to the ship and get to work. We'll get our terminals set up, one to each pole of the planet, and then we’ll come back and tell them what’s what! Come on I” I grabbed his arm, and we went.
Before I followed Carrist into the planet-mobile, however, I turned around and stole a last glance at the city. It looked ghostly, white quartz cutting pieces out of the blue-black sky. The castle was perhaps five levels high, with castellated battlements. Around it were what I had thought to be huts. There were thirty of them, all told. A thought went darting through my brain . . . quartz tomb. Were those huts the tombs the old Elronian had made reference to? The tombs in which they had slept their artificially induced sleep all these long ages; the tombs where they would sleep the final sleep? I shivered, and raised my eyes to the castellated battlements. I saw a figure, standing here, looking down at us.
The figure of a woman I I could not mistake the gentle curves-even of that six-and-a-half-foot body. Glowring jewels were draped from her neck and from her arms; and her large eyes, filled with an infinite sadness, glowed with the same persistency as the jewels.
Something crept out of my mind, and slowly, slowly yet surely, took possession of me. For the moment, I was all Elronian. I was the prince, and I was looking at that woman with all the tenderness that one man gives to his woman. My arms raised, and I stood there, I know not for how long, borne away on a rapture that even my Tellurian brain knew.
“. . . Sid 1 Good Lord, Sid 1"
Rough arms grabbed me. Something harsh slapped my face, and I was whipped around cruelly. My arms came down.
Then I was conscious of Carrist snapping at me in white heat. Slowly, then swiftly, the Elronian was gone from me. And I was almost my old self again. Carrist shoved me, and I clambered into the planet-mobile, sinking dazedly into the leather seat.
I Only after we had left the village ten or fifteen miles behind did Carrist look at me. He was fairly boiling.
“A hell of a note 1” he raged. “One of the laws is that the transferral must not allow the original owner’s mind to take full possession! Keep yourself under control after this, or by Lord, we’ll be in a hotter spot than we are now 1”
I looked at him dazedly, and then away again. My Tellurian’s mind remembered the glorious woman who had stood motionless on the parapet.
When we got back to the ship, nobody but Johensen, standing watch, was up. The others had gone to bed just an hour ago. Carrist and I decided to sleep, too, but first we looked around, to see what work had been accomplished. I was still in a less-than-clear state of mind, but I did notice, with approval, that the collapsible powerhouse, insulated with glass frame-work, was up. The Wittenbergs, the Holloway vacuum feeders, and the protonoclasts had been placed in the power house, ready for assemblage. The huge copper ball electrodes, constructed so that they could take more than one hundred million volts, were lying around in sections, as was the framework for the drilling turret. I nodded in satisfaction, said goodnight to Johensen, who kept asking me guarded questions to make sure I really was Sidney Hallmeyer and not one of the aliens, in person and in personality. I slapped Carrist on the back, urged him into the ship, and we sought our bunks, not quite sure whether our bodies were tired, but certain that our minds were 1
CARRIST and I, having bodies that were perfectly adaptable to the coldness of this little sphere that floated in the heavens more than a hundred million miles from Earth, did most of the work in the ensuing days; although we had the help of our five workers, who were clad in space-suits. We got the drilling turret together, handling the metal sections without discomfort to our hands, bolting them together with a minimum of difficulty. We powered the motor with a cable from the ship’s generator, and soon had the three-inch drill spinning. Carrist scrambled up the turret to the control platform, and dropped the drill to the almost unbroken quartz. It started to bite, with an immense humming, grinding noise. It was hard quartz, and it would probably be more than a day before we struck nickel-iron, if we did at all. After all, we had been taking the word of casual visitors or explorers of this planet that nickel-iron lay beneath the layer of quartz.
My fears, however, were without ground. Twenty hours after drilling operations had started, Carrist drew the drill up for the thousandth time. Suddenly he yelled. I ran forward, suspecting what had happened. I looked at the drill. Sure enough, about a foot of it was covered with metal flakings—nickel-iron, if I knew my business.
Elated, the Elronians driven from my mind by the certainty of the eventual success of the project, I set Johensen to work with a larger drill, since the boring would have to be at least eight inches in diameter. Carrist and I and the rest of the men got to work assembling the electrical equipment, putting the power house in order.
Two days later, all the hard work at this pole had been done. The giant copper electrode was set into the quartz, one end tightly enclosed by the nickel-iron twenty-five feet beneath us. The nickel-iron, of course, would ground the current that flowed between the two electrodes. Without that, our plan would have been completely useless.
In due time, we lifted the ship, put her down at the other pole, and commenced similar operations there, with the exception that we would not need a power house. We got the second electrode up in less time than the other, however, since we had to drill only twenty-one feet before we hit nickel-iron.
Carrist, who had been in a surly mood these past few days, looked at me sardonically.
“Now we’ve got her up, what happens?”
I didn’t catch his real meaning. I was exuberant over the ease with which things were going.
“It’s a simple matter,” I told him. Carrist understands little of electricity. “Our Wittenbergs can easily'generate an E.M.F. of more than a hundred million volts. The current will flow between the ball electrodes, grounding in the nickel-iron, thus completing the circuit. The whole planet will light up, not with separate bolts of lightning, but, because of persistence of vision, like a giant lamp. The wonderful thing about this planet is that it was literally made for an engineering project like this. The quartz is a dielectric, will not ground electricity. The atmosphere itself, since the planet rotates once every thirty hours or thereabouts, is in a constant state of turmoil. Understand? A bolt of lightning follows the line of least resistance. Well, anywhere from three to seven bolts of lightning will dart back and forth between the poles—120 times a second. We’ll be using alternating current on a sixty-cycle frequency. Since the air is always moving around, the line of least resistance changes billions of times in a single second. Result—”
Carrist had his hands on his hips, and was regarding me with exasperation.
“I don’t care about that,” he cried. “Your giant neon-sign won’t work with air, will it? You have to have krypton, an inert gas!”
That brought me back to Earth. For almost a week, now, I had managed to keep that thought out of my mind. Now it was brought back in full force. I curled my lips bitterly and was silent. My shoulders slumped.
“All right, then,” I muttered wearily. “I guess that’s our next job! Tell the men to get the ship ready and we’ll go back to base.”
We had no sooner put the ship down than Johensen, whom we had left behind just in case, came running out of the power house. We let him in the ship and helped him off with his space suit.
“Two of them were here,” he cried excitedly. “Two Elronians. They were on some tricycle things run by a small motor. They just walked around the electrode and the power house, took a look at the trans-muter. I came out and asked them what they wanted. They just stared. After awhile, they got on their tricycles and rolled away. I don’t know if they in any way
suspected what was going on or not.’'
“How long ago was that?” I asked.
“Two hours ago.”
I grabbed Carrist’s arm. “Come on. We’ll try to get to the Elronian queen before they do. If they found out we were going ahead on this project as if we didn’t intend to ask their permission, they might refuse just out of pure meanness! The rest of you stick around and watch things. Better yet, get the transmuter in working order so we can start the transmutation process the minute I give the word.”
And Carrist and I left the ship, our long, gangling Elronian bodies running around the powerhouse toward the automobile. We clambered in. I pressed the starter and the atomic motor purred. I released the clutch and like a flash we were off, going dangerously fast along the rough quartz surface.
I was in a fever of impatience all during that helter-skelter ride, straining my eyes through a gloom that even the Sun didn’t help much. But we never caught sight of the Elronians. Their motorized tricycles must have eaten up the distance. In short, they got there before we did.
CARRIST and I were both quiet as we made the last mile, the castle now visible, and reminding me depressingly of a great mausoleum. The car came to a stop, and we got out, standing there indecisively. My acquired heart was beating unsteadily as we looked toward the ghostly city. I thought I felt a fluttering pain in the chest of this body I was using, but that was probably imagination. Symptoms of heart trouble generally show up in painful arms; and both my arms had rheumatic twinges, which never bothered me-very much, since the body didn't belong to me.
“Well,” I finally muttered to Carrist, “let’s go.” I started toward the castle.
He pulled me back, looking at me strangely. “Sid,” he said nervously, “I don’t like this. We’re in a spot. Do you realize they've got our bodies? What if they should—well, you know what I mean 1 Let’s get our bodies back, and then explain the situation 1”
I laughed at him. “Don’t be silly, Will 1 You don’t think for a minute they’d break interplanetary law by withholding our
bodies from us, do you ? The Patrol would be down on them so fast their heads would swim.”
He held back stubbornly. “Well, I’m going to get my body; you can do what you like!” ’
And he started toward the domed building that housed the ego transmitting machinery. I looked exasperatedly after him, and finally took off after him. I got into the gloomy interior, and saw him disappear into the room where our bodies were stored. Ten seconds later I heard his yelp of horror. The next second he had plunged out of that room, smack into me. I picked him up. His teeth were chattering.
“Th-they’re—gone!” he stuttered. Then he wailed, “Sid, they’re gone 1 Our bodies I”
“What?” I gasped. Then I shoved him aside, pushed open the door, sending my eyes frantically to the shelves were our bodies had been placed. My eyes popped. The shelf doors were open; and our bodies weren’t there. Ye gods 1
Carrist was literally wringing his hands, a tortured expression on his face. I watched him blankly; and suddenly something stabbed at me. My knees weakened, and I grabbed at Carrist at the last minute. I felt him easing me to the floor, his teeth clicking, his voice chattering in shocked bewilderment.
For five minutes or so, I lay there, gasping, and I thought sure this body I was using was going to die. Then I was aware that I was swearing. The dirty dogs 1 To give me a body that might conk over any minute, and, in addition, to steal our real bodies from us!
Carrist helped me to my feet. He knew that if I could swear, even in the sweet, bell-like tone that came out of this body’s throat, then I was all right again.
His face was lighting up joyously. “That’s the spirit I” he exclaimed. “Let’s get mad at ’em 1”
“I’m mad at ’em, all right,” I snarled. “Come on!”
I grabbed at his arm and started toward the door, moving gingerly, however. I didn’t want a recurrence of that heart attack. But before we got to the outer door, some measure of sense returned to me. I halted Carrist and stood there thinking. Maybe that was wrong. The more thinking
I did, the more mountainous our troubles became. We had to get our bodies back; we had to persuade the Elronians to move to some other large asteroid, or satellite; we had to get the signpost working. And the first two jobs looked impossible! There was only one saving grace. I was mad clear through. They had made the first hostile move; we could make the second and final. And if they hadn’t had our bodies, I would have gone back to base, and set the krypton transmuter into action, and ask them to get off afterward!
But they had our bodies; and the one they had given me wasn’t healthy. I groaned, and Carrist looked miserable, plaintively demanding that I do something, no matter what it was.
BUT the matter of action was taken out of our hands. We heard the scraping sound of a sandal on quartz. We whirled; and there stood old Death’s-head, grinning at us, and rubbing his dry, crackly hands together.
“You wish something?” he whispered, moving toward us one step for every step we moved away. “You wish to ask something of the Prince Consort, husband of the Queen That Was, father of the Queen That Is? Ask, and it is decreed that I must submit to the aliens who defile our bodies!”
I shuddered at him, but I finally stopped moving backward.
“All right,” I snapped. “We do want something. We want our bodies.” I dug feverishly in the leather pouch strapped around my almost non-existent hips. “Here!”
He looked at the slip of paper, then raised his saucer-eyes again. “Ahg, yes! The receipt for your bodies! You shall have them. Did you seek audience with the Queen, hated dogs ?”
He looked from Carrist to me.
I said angrily, “No! Look here, we want our bodies. That’s all we want, right now. And—”
He turned away, whispering wheezily. “Then you shall see the Queen, if that is your desire! Come 1”
He hobbled away, like a wraith. I locked helplessly after him, then turned to Carrist, my eyes asking him an unspoken question. He looked at me scornfully.
“I’m not going with him, Sid,” he cried, drawing back. “He’s got some scheme in mind. I’m telling you, we better stand firm and raise hell! Tell them that we’ll report them or something I”
But I was hardly listening to him. Deep in my mind something stirred. In pristine clearness, I was again seeing the figure of a woman standing atop the castellated battlements of the castle of the Elronians. The Queen That Is. The thought took form in me. Out of the mind of the Eronian who was captured in my mind, welled a vast tenderness, and a longing that was old.
I said to Carrist dully, “Come on. We must tell her. We should have told her long ago, when we first came here; then things would have been on a straighter basis.”
And so I turned away from him, and did not realize that it was two mingled personalities that spoke. Behind me, Carrist sounded as if he were strangling.
“Sid, you’re mad!” he cried. His extraordinarily muscular arms grabbed me around the waist; I could feel his Elronian muscles bunching against my thin ribs. I turned around in anger, trying to break free. When he wouldn’t let me go, I brought my fist back and gave him everything I had, straight to the jaw. He went down like a poled ox. I let him lie there, and finally followed the self-proclaimed Prince Consort, husband of the Queen That Was, father of the Queen That Is.
HE led me from the Bureau of Transmitted Egos, across smoothed quartz, between two of the quartz huts, and finally up a short flight of stairs and into the castle. We turned right, went up another flight of stairs, and emerged into a huge, arched room that was heavy with the aroma of some alien incense. From the arched ceiling, barely dispersing the gloom that enwrapped me, hung tapers, burning slowly, and with a dull violet flame.
Then I became aware of a soft rhythm that swept in spasmodic surges through the room. I clenched my fists at my side. I was still enough of Sidney Hallmeyer, Electrical Research Engineer of the Tellurian Science Institute, to know that I should fight against the insidiousness that was welling into my brain. It was too much for me. I stood rooted on the threshold of that room, aware that he who had led me here had melted into the shadows, and joined the other ghostly figures that looked at me from two walls.
Far down at the other end of the room, now, the darkness was giving place to a radiance that grew like a Sun rising on mountains of snow. A figure suddenly was visible, and the rhythm that flowed through the room came louder to my ears. I knew with horror that I, Sidney Hall-meyer, was retreating into the depths of this brain that was not mine. I fought, then, savagely, with every atom of my will. Still I receded; and moved toward the woman who stood there.
The impulse that drove me was inexorable. I stood before a throne, on a tiny dais, then, and looked into the eyes of the woman I had seen on the castle top. I knew then, as I looked, that even after my ego had been transferred to my real body, if such it would be, I would remember the face whose round, calm, sad eyes looked into mine. I would remember the small drooping mouth, and the skin that was as white as moist rose petals, and the faintly bluish hair that hung down about her thin body that was beautiful to the eyes of the Elronian in me.
The lips opened, and above the quickening rhythm, her sweet voice gushed forth.
"Is it Prince Toganvi, my lover, who comes to me 1”
My lips moved with difficulty. “My name is Sidney Hallmeyer,” I whispered.
Her eyes became piercing. Suddenly she began to intone, in a quick rhythm that matched that which beat upon me:
"In the City of Eltor the green suns hang pendant above the fairy gardens of the rulers of the Empire of the Stars. In the night the green moons rule. IVinds come out of the mountains, carrying perfume upon them. Great white-feathered birds float above the waving trees, and sometimes cry out strange sounds. The children in the garden laugh at them and throw stones at them, and they wheel away, making their sounds. Beyond the wall are the voices of the people who are ruled. They will do the bidding of the children who play in the garden. The children play with little stones, and laugh as they strike them together, making sparks fly I Is it Prince Toganvi who stands before me I"
As in a ritual, I answered the same as before; but the word picture she painted was agonizing. Within me Prince Ton-ganvi strained turbulently against my will, and I felt the strength of him, as the picture that was formed surged vividly into his mind, and carried across to mine, threatening to engulf me.
The Queen leaned forward, her large eyes burning, her drooping lips parted.
"The wind catches the sails of the little boat, and it skims through the green night over the restless waters of the Lake of Loor that touches upon the shores of the City of Eltor. Far to the left loom the black cliffs. Thunder drops from the clouds, and lightning cuts the awful sky. The boat is tossed. The children are not laughing but are clasped in each other's arms while the slave fights the storm. Soon the waves are high. The slave screams and is gone. The mainsail splits, and the boat yaws broadside. Mountains of water engulf the boat, but when it is gone, a rocky shore rushes, rushes out of the blackness, and when the children arc next aware, they have been cast upon a beach, and the yellow sand is warm beneath them! Prince Toganvi, you have fought the will of the alien and are here!”
THE drum-beat of her voice and the unearthly rhythm struck at me. Shadows flickered as the tapers burned fitfully. The incense forced itself up my nostrils, and my mind was hazing. Yet, though the mind within me drew one step nearer the Queen who stood before him, I answered in a whisper, “I am Sidney Hallmeyer, Queen That Is!"
There was a rustle around me, and somehow I was aware of excitement. The Queen showed it in her strained face. Somehow, perhaps by my manner of addressing her, they must have suspected that I, the alien, was losing!
She spoke again, using vivid imagery, recalling fragments of a childhood that was lost in antiquity unmeasured.
"The great red forests terrace the mountain-side. The leaves fall and flutter in the light of the green moons. Cries of beasts come out of dark places. Far below the green, mysterious ocean pounds against gaunt rocks. Far above the stars, that are the Mighty Emperors, stand beyond the moons. The carriage rolls swiftly, and the children sit silent. Death-dealers stalk the empire. A light bursts the darkness. Out of the darkness comes the pound of fiery tarks. Their skin glows, and men with cruel faces sit astride them. The carriage turns. The wheels spit fire as the carriage flees down the mountain, back to the walled City of Eltor, on the edge of the green Lake of Loot. The night is sundered with the pound of hoofs and the cries of rage! Speak, my lover, Prince Toganvi, and know that it is I, the Queen That Is, who speaks to you t”
She leaned forward toward me, her eyes filled with a desperate yearning. Yet already she knew the answer my quivering, tortured mind was forcing to the lips of her Prince. Her face became white and strained, and again her lips moved, and words gushed forth:
“All the world that is the last stronghold of the Mighty Emperor of the Empire of the Stars is red with death. And red with flame. Even the beasts race across the dank black moors, slavering and wildeyed. Thunder spears the stricken air, and the aeroplane is tossed upon the storm. The children sit quietly. Regally they sit, side by side, and stare down at the red hell. The horizon rumbles as the rebels loose their missiles. Flames dance in puffs from the mountains. The heavens yaw widely. Below there will be the marching armies who defend the City of Eltor. The children sit quietly. The Emperor wil\ come. The Empire of the Stars will again be an empire. But the children do not understand. They do not know of their enemies, who plan the Sleep. They sit, side by side, hand in hand, and as they watch, they see the glorious spired City of Eltor blasted from the mountain-side. It slides, and churns and rumbles, and hovers on the edge of the mountains. Then it falls, falls, into the Lake of Loot. The Lake of Loor bursts into steam as it engulfs the City of Eltor. The hiss pierces the air in a great scream that burns itself into the children’s minds! Now, speak! Answer me, my lover, for I am the child who is now older in years, and leads her people to death, but, in metnory, shares the everlasting glories of the Empire we
91
were to rule with you, Prince Toganvi I" Quiet descended. Somehow, I was filled with a great calm. Somehow I was standing straighter, and the pictures of a glory that was dead floated before me, and grew in strength. The Lake of Loor; the City of Eltor; the gardens where we played. I remembered!
THE Queen leaned forward, her lips parted, her eyes bright with hope and longing.
“It is you, Prince Tonganvi,” she said softly.
“I am Prince Toganvi, yes,” my body’s voice answered. “For a time, I come from the defilement that has been visited upon me. My Queen, have you so adroitly called me forth because of the danger facing us? For the purpose of revealing that secret which the hated aliens have withheld? Or is it that the day of our wedding, set when we were but children who played in the gardens of the royal palace, has now come, and must not be put aside, though there is another within me?”
The Queen leaned forward, her lips parted with an infinite tenderness. “It is the latter I long for, my prince, but the former I must know, and quickly. Do the aliens intend to destroy us? Have you learned this much?”
The Prince stood straighter. When he spoke, there was the quality of steel in his voice.
“Already the machines have been built. This much I knew, yet was powerless to inform you. It is their intention to drive us from this planet, the consecrated resting place to which we are all destined for eternity.”
And deep in his mind, helpless to assert my true ownership of this body, and lacking the desire to do so if I could, I listened as he spoke, recounting in detail the plan first thought of by the Interplanetary Board. And he painted us blackly! The plan was to go ahead with the project, according to Prince Toganvi, get the electrodes set up, start the krypton transmuter, thus changing the air into unbreathable krypton, and asphyxiating the Elronians should they refuse to leave this planet upon which they were destined to die.
The Queen, and those who were assembled off in the shadows listened. Finally

he ceased, and silence descended. As if moving from a trance, the drooping lips of the Queen turned upward, in a sweet, sad smile. Regally, she descended two steps, and placed her hand, soft as velvet upon the cheek of the Prince.
“It would be my wish that our marriage were consummated on this day,” she whispered. “The years have fled past, and we have waited too long. There has been too much sadness in our lives, Prince Toganvi, and therefore we should have taken as much of joy as we could. Now, who knows, perhaps we will never know the happiness we could have given each other. The aliens are here, and surely our lives are short and almost spent! For should we resist these, there are yet millions—and even, they say, billions—who will seek us out, to work their will upon us.”
Around us—Prince Toganvi, the Queen, and myself—there was a whisper of protest. The Queen looked into the darkness, smiling gently.
“Is there any who denies us the right of marriage?” she said. “Must we fight this thing that is happening, when already death is upon us? Better for us to seek our beds, and sleep the sleep that is eternal, in the arms of those we love.”
Yet there was the murmur of protest, and figures stirred uneasily.
A frightened, imploring expression grew in the Queen’s eyes. Even on Prince Toganvi’s face she could see the look of doubt. Her white, fragile hands crept to her eyes. She lowered her head, and stood in that manner, as if she were facing an ultimate sorrow she could not bear, a sorrow worse than that engendered by the ultimate loss of everything she had known in her youth. And suddenly I knew and understood the terrible heartbreak she was enduring. All her life she had been betrothed to this Elronian who stood before her, doubtful of the wisdom of the course she had suggested. Even in my apathetic state, I winced.
When she raised her head, her eyes were calm and bright.
“What is my Prince’s wish?” she asked regally.
For a long moment he returned her gaze; then suddenly fell to one knee, and pressed her hand to his lips. And I knew the answer to the turbulent emotions that seethed within him. If he could have been allowed to answer her question, it would have been, in many ways, the perfect happy ending.
Even now, I look back on that moment with loathing. It was a beautiful scene that was being enacted. Violet shadows, dancing fitfully against fluted columns, and against the white robed Elronians who hovered deep in the darker shadows; and the brilliance of a hidden radiance centered on the face of the Queen That Is, and reflected back upon the bowed head of prince Toganvi; and over all a subtle incense floated, and mingled insensibly with the beating flow of an alien, low rhythm. A man—for how else should he be distinguished, though he was not of our race —without words gave his eternal love to a woman; and in her gently sweet face, in the smile that hovered on her lips, she gave answer.
.... “Sid!”
IKE that it came. . . .
Caught up in the harshness of that cry, I needed no mighty effort of will to bridge the barrier that was Prince Toganvi. Indeed, had I thought, I should have remained where I was, deeply buried, an humble spectator. I had no time to think. The brutal recurrence of that cry brought me up with a surge. Prince Toganvi no longer was Prince Toganvi. I caught one glimpse of the suddenly tortured eyes of the Queen That Is, then I had whirled, and run down the length of the room toward the door, in pure instinct.
Carrist, in the body of the Prince Togervi, came rushing toward me, his acquired face screwed up with excitement and anxiety.
"Sid 1” he cried. “By Lord, you’re alive!” He grabbed my arm, pulled me toward the door. I caught a glimpse of two other figures—Anderson, our engineer, and Seaton, our mathematician.
Suddenly I was in a consuming rage. I pulled away from Carrist. I screamed at him, I don’t know what. I pointed back at the Queen That Is, mouthing incoherently. I pointed at the robed figures who still lined the wall, speechless, motionless, shocked into silence at this desecration.
Carrist glared at me as if I were mad, which I doubtless was. His lips tensed.
‘‘Can’t you tell, you damn fool?” he hissed. “Krypton!”
And he followed up his explanation with even a more potent persuasion. His fist smashed upward, and the universe hazed. The next thing I knew, my body was jogging up andLdown painfully, and the blood was rushing to my head. From somewhere behind, I heard the patter of feet, an excited, enraged hum of voices. I didn’t blame those Elronians one bit. I hung face downward across Carrist’s shoulder, unable or unwilling to demand that he put me down. I watched the quartz speeding away under Carrist’s flying footsteps, heard him wheezing from the exertion. Then a thought burned into me.
Krypton!
My lungs, unconsciously, were going like bellows, as if they had to work twice as fast in order to get enough oxygen. Cold horror lanced through me.
With a cry of rage, I brought my arms up, twisted his arms away, and flung myself to my feet.
I grabbed at him, brought him to a full stop. My face was murderous.
“By Lord,” I hissed, “if you went back to camp and turned the transmuter on—!”
He tugged at my arm, casting anxious glances behind us toward the castle.
“I did, Sid!” he cried. "It was the only way. They had you trapped. I didn’t know what they were going to do to you—”
“Shut up!” I rapped out. Suddenly, the urgency of flight was apparent. Not to escape, but to save those who would shortly be on our trail.
My head snapped up. Less than a hundred yards away, Seaton and Anderson were just disappearing into our airtight automobile. I impelled myself after them, and although I spoke no word to Carrist,
I heard him urging himself after me. And behind us, I heard nothing of the Elronians. To me. that was more ominous than if they were charging after us. By this time, they couldn't have failed to note the decreasing vitality of the air. And although the Queen That Is would have given them no such order, the majority of them would not take this sitting down.
We reached the planetomobile without incident, piled in. I took the wheel, and without the waste of a second, wheeled the
vehicle around in a screaming arc, dodged around the Bureau of Transmitted Egos, Inc., and then was off through the gloom of night toward our camp, keeping the automobile in high in spite of the tortuous, dangerous route we had to take.
We had been on our way only a few minutes, when Carrist touched on a subject I had forgotten.	...
I turned to him, snarling. “The hell with our bodies! This is more important. I wish—Carrist, I wish you could have seen her!” I hung onto the wheel, gritting my teeth at the thoughts that went through my head.
Carrist was silent, shaking his head in bewilderment. I knew he thought he had done me a favor—rescued me! That was a laugh. But I didn’t say so. Later on, he was going to feel bad enough.
After an hour of that mad, dangerous ride, while outside the air literally turned to krypton under the impulse of a powerful, invisible radiation, we caught the first sign of real trouble.
“They’re after us 1” Carrist cried, twisting around in his seat.
I stole a swift glance at the mirror. Behind us, just topping a white, gleaming quartz ridge, I saw about a dozen of them. Elronians on fantastic, high, thick-wheeled tricycles. They were coming like mad, not only keeping pace with us, but gaining. Dimly, above the laboring roar of the atomic motor of the automobile, I heard the rapid hum of the motors that impelled them. My lips tightened, and I turned back to the wheel, and started taking more hairbrained chances. It was rough riding with a vengeance!
Carrist pounded me on the back, beside himself with anxiety. “They’re gaining, Sid! They’re gaining!” His voice was a wail.
1TOOK more chances. And that was the way it kept on for the next hour. There was still a full mile between us and the Elronians when we made camp. The automobile skittered to a screaming halt. I saw Johensen and our three other men waving at us excitedly from the window of the heavily insulated powerhouse. The airlock to the powerhouse was already open.
“Out!” I snapped. “And hold your breath 1” I flung open the door, and ran for the airlock. The others pounded after me, through an atmosphere of unbreath-able krypton. We crowded into the airlock, and the outer door closed. Just when I thought my lungs were certain to burst, the airlock was fanned with a breeze of pure oxygen. In another minute, the inner door had opened, and we had burst into the powerhouse amidst a chorus of excited congratulations.
The Elronians had stopped, more than a half mile away. I looked at the others in puzzlement, but they could offer no suggestions. Muttering, I rummaged in a locker, and broke out a pair of binoculars.
“They’re putting something together,” Johensen muttered worriedly. “Maybe it’s a weapon of some kind. If each of them carried a separate piece—”
My blood froze. Suddenly the little knot of Elronians cleared away; and I saw then that Johensen had hit at the truth. That was a weapon, and a particularly devilish one, if they made no attempt to come closer than a half-mile.
I put the binoculars down in a flurry of fear.
“I’m getting into a space-suit,” I snapped, running toward the storage bin. “If I don’t get out there and talk with them, they’ll do something they’re going to regret.”
And I did get into the space-suit, in record time. But it wasn’t much good. It wasn’t any good at all.
1 HEARD a tiny, faraway, bursting sound. But it wasn’t far away. It was horribly near.
“The—the ship!” Carrist gurgled, clawing suddenly at the window. “Sid—my Lord—the ship!”
I dashed for the window, hurled him out of the way. My heart stopped dead. The ship, the heavily insulated ship that had brought us here, was gone. Even as I looked, it seemed to turn into a flattened pancake of smoke, grayish smoke that swirled minutely. It continued to settle, suddenly started to roll away, along the ground. It broke up into little pieces, spreading out and out, growing slowly invisible, until it just wasn’t there. The ship was gone.
And the transmuter with it. I stared with dazed eyes, trying to digest that. The transmuter, that already had begun to give the Elronians back their air, was— gone.
Aching silence settled around us. I turned, met Carrist’s scared eyes.
“We-we’re next,” he stammered.
I said slowly, “I know."
“Do you do it, or do I?” he hissed.
My answer was simple. I sat down at the instrument board, jiggling the maker-and-breaker key up and down. I nodded at Carrist. With a single, panic-stricken motion, he pulled the knife-switch down. He must have thought I was crazy the way I was fooling around. The Witten-bergs howled into action, and lead cable started disappearing at a phenomenal rate into the Holloway vacuum feeder.
I put my hand on the maker-and-breaker, smiling twistedly to myself. Nothing on this planet that was exposed would or could resist the hell of electricity that would soon enwrap it like a cocoon of flame.
“Sid!” Carrist wailed imploringly.
Shuddering, I forced the key down. What happened was tremendous.
LIVID hell broke loose, though we never saw the outward evidence. Johensen had pulled the asbestos blind over the single window. The blast of lavender radiance, that was visible clear up to Pluto and all the way down to Mercury, engulfed the planetoid, but was invisible to us. But we heard the sound. It was like nothing in this world. It was a solid, smashing wall of sound that would have deafened us had we not instinctively opened our mouths and clapped our hands over our ears. The powerhouse rocked under that incredible barrage of vibration. Thunder at its most furious was nothing. It was true, a series of thunder-daps, but, since it all took place in the space of a single second, they all merged into one.
Just for one second. Then it was over. I sat there, my legs wrapped around the chair. The others were shaking. A whole minute passed before we moved.
Then Seaton slid his slight body into a chair. “That does for ’em.”
I nodded my head, agreeing with him, and kept on nodding my head like a marionette. Yes, that did for them. And it did for a lot of things. The signpost in space was an actuality, but at a cost; the
least of which I considered to be—our bodies.
"Well, Carrist,” I said humorously, "how will it feel to go around the rest of your life in that gangly mess of bones and skin?” I looked his body up and down, my lips curled in sardonic, bitter amusement.
His eyes popped at me. “Are you crazy, Sid?” he cried. I’ll use my own body. So will you!” He looked at me as if I were mad.
I said carefully, “Our bodies were caught in the same blast of electricity that wiped out the Elronians, weren’t they ? So, ther-fore—"
He waved his arms excitedly. “But they're safe I Safe! What are you talking about?”
"What are you?” I said angrily. I was tired and worn and in no mood for joking. And then he told me. Of course. It was simple. Quartz is a dielectric. It won’t pass electricity. Therefore, our bodies were unharmed.
“Well, that’s a relief then,” I said, as if it were my duty to be happy about it. I sighed. “Let’s go and get them. But first we’ll send a message to Earth or Mars to come and get us.”
Carrist looked puzzled. He had completely forgotten, for the time, the real purpose of the planet. Then he laughed sheepishly.
I got them all into the powerhouse, and, using the maker-and-breaker, which was nothing more than a telegraph key, tapped out a Morse Code message to Earth. Again the thunder beat at us, and the powerhouse rocked; which told me that a more substantial affair would have to be built later on. Outside, I knew, the planet, nothing but a huge neon-sign, only we were using krypton, lit up and blanked out in a series of dots and dashes, though that would not have been visible to human eyes.
NOT expecting the rescue expedition to show up for at least a week, we didn’t mind walking to the Elronian city; °ur automobile, of course, had gone with the ship. As we approached, the sight of the lonely castle sent my spirits down to the pit. We walked along silently, and
95
finally stood before the Bureau of Transmitted Egos, Inc. Of course, there was nothing left of the machinery. It had vaporized under the current that had run through it. There was little left of the interior of the domed building except the quartz walls.
Carrist led me to our bodies. He had, of course, discovered them after I had followed old Death’s-head. We pushed aside the hinged slab of rock that led into one of the quartz huts—and there we were, looking as healthy as you please, slowly breathing air from our own oxygen tanks, and enclosed in quartz containers. Fused quartz, since they were quite transparent.
“They look happy,” I said. “Leave them there, until the ship comes. We'll have to go back to Mars someplace to have our egos exchanged. And then—”	I
stopped.
Somehow, I wandered out the door, and lost them. I felt like a ghost with a mission to perform. Perhaps it was Prince Toganvi, moving within me again. At any rate, I moved straight as a die to the other side of the castle, and entered a tomb—for such I knew it be—there. I stood there in the gloom, feeling stifled. But within me, Prince Toganvi stirred. He —I—moved forward and stood over her. The Queen That Is—the Queen That Was!
She was in her coffin, lying there quite peacefully. Her small, perfect lips drooped like those of a disappointed child. Or perhaps it was a kind of smile. I don’t know. But somehow I felt that she was still sad as she lay there, dead by her own hand, probably. What could I do to make her happy, I remember thinking vaguely.
Prince Toganvi stirred feebly within me, and somehow a thought touched my brain—whether his or mine, I didn’t know.
But I said, gently, standing over the still, white form of the Queen That Was: “All right, Prince. I’ll bring you back. There’s room for two. You can lie there beside her—forever.” I stopped, recalling the part I had played in this. I added, “I hope it helps, Queen That Was. I hope it does.”
Then somehow, I started to smile. It might have been Prince Toganvi. I don’t know. But I turned and left the tomb; still smiling.

</body>

</html>