<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="vizigraph">
    <h1>THE VIZIGRAPH</h1>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">Y</span>OU picked the winners of original illustrations from the * Winter issue. It’s Thompson and Goldsmith, 1 and 2, and Hidley again, this time to show. Let's have your Spring issue winners. Remember, the three best get their choice of original illustrations from this issue.</p>
    <p>Because of the great influx of letters to The Vizigraph the Feature Flash must get the go-by this issue.</p>

    <h2>LYNCH ’IM IF YOU HAVE TO...</h2>

    <p class="right">7063 Ohio Avenue<br />Silverton, Ohio</p>
    <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
    <p>When I saw your offer of an original drawing, I says to myself, “Saayyy," I says, "I must proceed to avail myself of this sterling opportunity of procuring an original picturization of a thrilling episode from that amazing, astounding, astonishing, startling, and thrilling wonder of a magazine, <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories!</span>”</p>
    <p>There are very few improvements I could suggest. In fact, I think you have done downright well so far in improving the mag since the first issue. In the first place, I was glad to observe the sensational type of cover lessen. Whenever I pick up a mag with that type cover from the newsstands, I have the strange and overwhelming obsession that countless accusing eyes and atomic disintegrators are being carefully trained upon the small of my back. Then, to hide my folly from the accusing orbs of malicious onlookers, I carefully slip the mag into something unimpressing, like a Snick, A Peep, or a Horrible Homes and Garters; purchase it, and run gibbering up the street toward home.</p>
    <p>One improvement I could suggest is so revolutionary in the stf field that I am almost afraid to mention it, aware that I might be made the object of a trillion sneers, leers, and disdainful scoffs. However, they laughed at Jules Verne, Bob Fulton and Flash Gordon! I will be a martyr to my cause, and tell this bizarre idea to you. I know that for years upon other years it has been the custom to have “Incredible Tales” printed on the covers, superimposed over a Ganymedian Gazilp, a zooming space ship, or a flaming meteor. Now here's an idea I made up out of my own ingenious brain. Nix out the stars, ships, and Gazilps, and . . . JUST PRINT INCREDIBLE TALES ON A SOLID BACKGROUND!!!!! Incredible, eh, Ed? No foolin’, I think that your cover would be much more appealing if you would condescend to cut out that sensational, screaming comet. How’s about it?</p>
    <p>I find your art very refreshing. You have given us a few new names in stf illustrating. Lynch is excellent. His heavy shading technique and figures would give a boost to the poorest stf story ever printed. Hold on to Lynch. Lynch ’im if</p>
    <p>you have to, but keep him around. By all means give this new fellow, Rosenthal, a chance. I would like to see all struggling stf artists reach the top (including myself). After all, I, too, am but an enthusiastic artist trying to get ahead. (If I get one I’ll let you know). Paul and Morey are always old stand-bys who can show the young fellas up, so hold onto them.</p>
    <p>As for stories, who’s complainin’? You have some of the best names in stf, with Ross Rocklynne, Nelson Bond, and Repp. Don’t get me wrong, now. I’m not insinuating that stf fans read stories just because they have big names behind ’em, but after all Bond and Rocklynne write good stuff all the time.</p>
    <p>Still, though, I’ve often wondered what the results would be if a story was written by a well-known stf author and signed: “by Inglethorpe Squidgebottom.” What would the editors think? What would the fans think? What would the real Inglethorpe Squidgebottom think? Would they proclaim it a darned good yarn, or would they be prejudiced by the name? <i>Interesting</i>, eh?</p>
    <p>Well, if you keep the stories you have been printing as examples of what’s to come, I’ll keep buyin’ your magazine. So far I have found nothing serious to kick about, ’cause it seems to me you’re doing a darned sight better than some other mags that have been going on for y’ars and y’ars. And, oh yes... if my epistle is one of the few which are worthy of a prize, I'll take Rosenthal’s illustration for Domain of Zero, or any Paul.</p>
    <p>Best wishes,</p>
    <smallcaps>Dann Heilman.</smallcaps>

    <h2>MR. INGLETHORPE SQUIDGEBOTTOM SHALL BE WELCOME</h2>

    <p class="fp">Mr. Dann Heilman<br />7063 Ohio Avenue<br />Silverton, Ohio.</p>
    <p class="smallcaps">Dear Mr. Heilman:</p>
You missed the boat, but fortunately managed to avoid falling into the deep. To be more explicit, your letter arrived just too late to make the Winter issue, but since your comments were so dateless, and, in fact, so worthwhile and pertinent, we’re running it now.
No question about it, your thought of printing INCREDIBLE STORIES on a solid background, bare of Ganymedian Gazilps or flaming meteors, is completely revolutionary. Undoubtedly it’s a fine idea. Few, if any, of the stf logos have distinguished themselves through sheer simplicity. But still, put yourself in the editor's place, Mr. Heilman. Think of designing a stf title. Think of the temptations. With all the patterns in the known and unknown universe to draw on, and no on to say you nay .. . . ! To me the surprising thing is that stf logos aren’t worse than they are.
As regards your friend Mr. Inglethorpe Squidgebottom, should he show at our desk he would be exceedingly wel-ome. Very welcome indeed, provided he has a story and knows how to tell it. Especially if the story turns out to be the kind of story we print. In spite of all tales to the contrary, any editor welcomes a new writer. The reason we are not more thrilled by new hands knocking at our doors is that we know from long experience that out of perhaps 1,000 of those dosed fists only one will hold anything at all that looks tike a nugget
Thank you again for your good letter, Mr. Heilman. I hope you get your Rosenthal Of Paul.—The Ep.
NO SATIRE? THEN NIX!
7730 Pitt Detroit, Mich.
Dear Editor:
I’m not writing in hopes of winning an original illustration; my letters don’t rate that high. And I’m not writing to tell you that Planet Stories is the best mag on the market; it isn’t Nor am I writing to say, as so man;- are, that you have the most rapidly improving mag in the field.
Say, come to think of it, why am I writing this letter? Oh, yeh, it’s about your story, “The Castaway.” This, believe it or not, is the first time I’ve ever enjoyed a story containing both fantasy and science fiction 1 I'm one of those “down with fantasy, we want science,” guys. I don’t mind fantasy, I just don’t like it in science fiction, as a rule. But for some reason I did like “The Castaway." Seems queer that this was printed under a pseudonym; it was much better than the same author's cover-rating Vene-sian vampire story a few pages further on.
The cover, incidentally, is ‘he best you’ve had yet, though I don’t like so much printing on the picture. At least it illustrates a story, and for a change the inevitable female is in the background.
Your stories still contain too much cheap adventure, but, thank the editors that be, are a big improvement over a year a.ro. “Atom of Death" was, as Rocklynne’s tales have a way of being, very interesting. James’ and Brackett’s shorts were fair.
Martian invaders and an underground world rate first and second places respectively in the threadbare plots dep’t. But lo and behold. Binder gets the magnificent idea of using both themes in one story, and pitting the Martians against the Undergrounders! A great idea for a satire, but since “One Thousand Miles Below” was not a satire, it rates as less than good.
My opinions on “Twilight of the Tenth World” are somewhat divided. There's the tendency to congratulate Ayre on daring to use a different plot, but, after all, my elastic imagination can be stretched just so fart Ayre's attempts at American slang were amusing. The dialog wasn’t so bad, but phrases like “just scrammed out of the skies” in the continuity—?? Been seeing too many of our gangster movies, Mr. Ayre?
I gave up on Ray Cummings' yarn after three pages, but that's further than I usually get with his stuff.
Before I close, a word of complaint to the distribution dep’t. I’m an inveterate newsstand scanner, yet I’ve missed a couple of Planets. (Picked them up later, via the secondhand route.) The copies I have gotten are invariably the last ones in the place, and I know at least one local fan who’s never seen a Planet on a newsstand 1 Might be to your advantage to do something about this.
Lvnn Bridges.
Ed’s Note: Thank you very much indeed for the newsstand tip. We’ve already done something about it.
PLEASE, MR. ASIMOV, PLEASE DON’T CRY. EVERYTHING WILL BE ALL RIGHT, BYE AND BYE.
174 Windsor Place Dear Editor :	Brooklyn, N. Y.
It is difficult to type this because salt tears are rolling down my rosy cheeks and are interfering with my vision. You see, I will have to plead in this letter—plead on hands and knees.
Please I My name is not Isaac Asenionl Any one who says it is is a dirty liar. When I first saw that name appended to a letter, I was puz-zled. Can this be mine? said I. Yes, answered I, it must, for its literary composition proves that it can only have been written either by yourself or by an illiterate Australian bushman —and illiterate Australian bushmen don’t read Planet Stories (one of the reasons why they remain illiterate Australian bushmen). Besides, added I, Asenio t knocks love interest and any letter knocking love interest is yours a priori.
The next item on the agenda was whether or not to visit the editor and attempt assault and battery or to confine myself to a time-bomb sent via parcel post. After long consideration, I decided against both. Why, said I, there is not a sciencefiction fan in the country who would not take one look at that letter, breathe in the odor therefrom emanating and exclaim in impassioned tones, "This is an Asimr» letter." It is a cinch, said I, that poor Mr. Editor will get seventeen thousand threatening letters by return mail concerning this fjross misspelling.
But, alas, things did not work out so. My best friends now call me Asenion (a combination of sounds I detest). The reader’s column in the current Planet Stories is saturated with reference to this Asenion. I have no doubt I shall soon get mail addressed to Asenion. Nothing I will ever be able to say will convince anyone I am not Asenion. Damn it, I won't stand for it
Know, then, that I, Isaac Asimov, am proud of my name. I like it. I like its sound. I like the way it looks in print.
I abhor this Asenion. I cast it into the outer darkness. I will punch the next guy who calls me Asenion right in the kisser.
Blessings on Charles Hidley for recognizing me through the disguise. Even with a “z” my name looks better than Asenion. Blessings from a grateful heart also upon my favorite letter writer, D. B. Thompson (of whose sanity I have grave doubts, for he likes my stories—but why should I complain of such a charming and lovable affliction) for likewise recognizing it—with a “z.”
And now, having concluded I shall—for the first time—ask, nay, beg, the editor to print this letter. I realize that it has little or nothing to do with Planet Stories and will just waste valuable space—but perhaps he can print a tiny excerpt, say, for instance, just the following short sentence.
“My name is Asimov, and not Asenion, curse you all I” Insistently yours,
Isaac Asimov.
QUITE RICHT—BOND DONE IT
Neosho, Missouri
Dear Sir:	...	,
Just a word to let you know that there are fans this far down in the hill-country. At least there’s one fan; please, readers, are there any more science-fiction and fantasy fans in this neck of the woods?
Your mag has constantly improved up to the last issue (Winter). I don’t rate it as high as the Fall issue, but maybe Bond’s "The Ultimate Salient" has prejudiced me. Bond is still your top author. I guess you rate him pretty high yourself, Mr. Editor, or why would we find two stories by him in the Winter PS? Bond did write "Castaway,” didn’t he? Was it a mistake that the story was credited to one George Dan-zell? Or (perish the thought I) are you running short of material? But I’m not beefing—it’s okay by me.
I was never very hot on interpl netary yams, but since Bond has entered the stf field he has given a new life to that type of fiction. Indeed, where other stories of space-traveling are merely unreal descriptions of a hodge-podge of “scien-tific-super-scientific” terms and phrases, or else a dry, uninteresting, inexplainabte account of unnatural characters, Mr. Bond’s plots and characters really live in the minds of the readers.
In the last issue of PS I rate Ayre’s “Twilight of the Tenth World,” first, with “Castaway," second; despite the well-used plot, “Castaway” was very well written. Again, I reiterate—it was written by Bond, wasn't it?
The only kicks I have to make are simply these: how about some better interior artists? (only one illustration by Bok in this issue), some time-traveling stories now and then; and, of course, trimmed edges.
Yours very truly,
Bill Elliott.
Ed.’s Note; George Danzell is Bond’s pseudonym. No one knows who started the rule against a writer using his own name on more than one story in a single issue.
ABSOLUTELY INCOMPARABLE
2302 Ave. 0,
Dear Editor :	Brooklyn, N. Y.
To open my critical letter . . . hats off to Eando Binder! Here’s my description of that immortal yarn of three civilizations “One Thousand Miles Below.” . . . Absolutely incomparable. In fact it is one of the only stf tales that I can call perfect. The second best story in the Winter PS was Thornt'-" Ayre’s "Twilight of the Tenth World” and I think this one was an ultra ultra. Third place was awarded to "Phantom of the Seven Stars” by Ray Cummings an’ it’s a swell improvement over his “novel” in the last issue. There was, however, a slight error in this magnificent yarn; it is stated that asteroid nine is about 500 miles in diameter, in reality the largest planetoid Ceres is less than 430 miles across. How dear editor, did you let a mistake like this pass your eagle eye? Trailing right along in fourth place comes James’ "Exit from Asteroid 60.” I wonder why pal, you made such a show for my number five choice. Dam it . . . when I saw that cover I expected the science-fiction novel. Yeah, you guessed it. Who couldn't 1 Bond’s "Beyond Light.” C'mon now, be honest. . . . Don’t you think Nelson S. could turn out much better work? Remember “The Ultimate Salient” in the preceding issue? Sixth places goes to Leigh Brackett's “Stellar Legion."
. . . And it was a dam good yam, too. “Atom of Death” by Rocklynne was my number seven —good but too short. In last place was the "Cutaway” by Darnell—no place el»e to put it.
The cover was the only thing in this issue of PS that I have to call ousley. Incidentally I ,ee that blonde is back again. . . . Why? Can’t you get rid of her? Seriously though, why don’t you depict a story (preferably the novel) on the front of the mag. . . . This picture was supposed to resemble “Beyond Light,” but besides the bat-men there wasn't the slightest sign of relationship. Also there was much, much too much writing. Say feller, give a friend a break, how about a cover bj Lynch ?—he’s the best rocket drawer I ever saw. One of his realistic superstreamline space-ships blasting its way through the void would improve the cover a thousand per cent. Even a front-piece by Paul, Findlay or Wesso would be greatly appreciated.
I think Planet should stay as it is . . .a quarterly publication. ... If the price has to be raised 1 definitely do not want trimmed edges.
. . . Why in heck are they so important to some fans? Hoping to receive an original of Lynch’s drawing for "Phantom of the Seven Stars,” I remain
Interplanetarily yours,
Milton Lesser.
CANT WE GET AWAY WITH ANYTHING	2541 Aqueduct Ave.,
Dear Editor:	New York, New York
The cover on the Winter Planet is inexcusable; the drawing is not so bad but the gargantuan print is atrocious and not to be likened to the recent policies of this magazine. The stories, though, were of a- marked increase from last time.
“Twilight of the Tenth World” had all the qualities of good science-fiction: mystery, science, adventure, a space-flight and it’s preparation, alien beings, wee bit of the eerie, drama, no desperate love or super-heroics, suspense, and most important—the obvious, realistic and human reactions to situations. With the addition of a smash climax how could this be anything but first. The Eron pic was fair but it had nothing to do with the story. Neither of the novelets were illustrated correctly; the Lynch "spaceships” could not have been over 20 feet long.
Binder, as usual, writes a good yarn. I enjoy a story that moves rapidly and tells a meaty tale while it moves. The plot of this one resembled something by Coblentz some time back, but the author decorated “ ‘M’ Miles Below” with enough tinsel and action to make it stand on its own originality. Cumming's Phantom is third and a good example of the opposite of Binder in that His stories have many words with little meaning.
Miss Brackett tells of the “Stellar Patrol” with feeling and patriotism, and is ably assisted in putting over her No. 4 yarn by that fine artist Bok. You are slowly but surely giving to all and Sundry the many wishes they desire. Now why not 'grant these two for my benefit: more full-paged framed pics and a caption under each. The great variety of artists—7 for 8 yams—is one already fulfilled.
"Atom of Death,” because of vivid characterization and clever science, is fifth and superbly graced by Lynch. The dramatic highlights of this one compare favorably with “Venus Has Green Eyes” of last issue; the figures seem to ■cap from the page. Next is the D. L. James short of asteroid prison life. The Smalley pic was inaccurate in a few details—using a lash in space-suited slaves for instance—but the strange angularity of the figures and landscapes make a nice eye-catcher after the perfections of Paul, Morey
and Lynch.
I could have sworn that the No. 7 story, “The Castaway," was authored by Nelson Bond and that the last on my list, "Beyond Light,” was by anyone but him. The former short was rather obvious after the first few lines with the aid of the title. I enjoyed it though, and was only annoyed to see that Rosenthal has discontinued the individuality of his “silhouette” or “relief” drawings to join the ranks of the lull and very non-original commonplace stf-artists. Morey’s illustration is heaps better than last issue's and the best so far I think. That is about all that can be said for the cover yarn; it didn’t deserve such good art for the bang-bang horror and mediocrity it represented.
The best letters this issue were Goldsmith, Thompson and Rajocz. I am most grateful to the readers who helped me to an original illustration—and especially to Messrs. Evans and Stoker.
Your answer to William Stoy’s note seems to indicate that there is a possibility of a Paul cover next issue. Let’s hope so. Stoker’s concocted confectionery suits the tastes of the readers, I'm sure. Cuttle’s art critiques were well thought out—it seems that the whole Vizigraph was good. Now how about increasing the pages of this interesting—and informative and lucrative—department ?
The best illustrations were in this order: Paul, Bok, Lynch (Cummings), Morey and Lynch (Rocklynne). Keep up the very good work.
Thanks again,
C. Hidley.
Ed’s Note: Stf readers have an amazing talent, rarely found in other readers, of being able to unerringly recognize an author’s style.
20% OR MERELY 4%?
Dear Editor:	Lidgerwood, N. Dak.
The Winter issue of PS, which I have just read, is the best so far; that is, the good points outweigh the bad ones to a greater degree than ever before.
Binder has always been a favorite of mine. The idea of discovering an underground civilization and being invaded by Martians at the same time is a bit far-fetched, but I like his explanation—“fantastic—as only the truth can be.” If we all thought of it in that way we’d be a lot more lenient toward authors.
"The Castaway” was a disappointment. The ending leaves too much unexplained, '’’ould you really like to read a very interesting detective story which ended by saying, “The murderer escaped and to this day his identity is unknown?” This story also touches upon the supernatural, and that is my pet peeve in a science yam. In my opinion, the supernatural has a scientific explanation which wc have not yet discovered, and it is the task of a stf. author to supply it.
By skipping the rest of the stories, which were good to varying degrees, we come to “Twilight of the Tenth World.” Excellent I It is the first story by Ayre that I really enjoyed. More like it I
However, I believe that Mr. Ayre made one bad error. He says that we use only one-fifth of our brain; that, therefore, our heads are only
Vauchan R. Heiner.
one-fifth as large as those of our creators. It is obvious that one of those two statements is not true. If they are both correct, we would be using only 4% of a complete brain. Right ?
The illustrations are all good, with the exception of Bok's. He should draw only for supernatural stories. You almost took a cover from a story this time, didn’t you ? Maybe you meant to, only the artist forgot to read the story first.
I suggest giving the first, second, and third prize to Hidley, Goldsmith, and Thompson respectively.
Yours till science unties the knots in a cord of wood.
Roy Paetzke.
. . . OLD OIL CANS, SCRAPS OF GALVANIZED SHEET IRON, ODD BITS OF WINDOW GLASS
St. Andrew’s College,
Dear Editor:	Aurora, Ontario
The last issue of PS has dropped some—what from the high level made by the previous issue, though it is still better than the average stf. magazine.
The short stories were by far the best, with Bond’s “Beyond Light” leading. Danzell’s "weird,” however, does not belong in a stf. magazine.
The longer stories were without exception mediocre or outright poor. "One Thousand Miles Below” is just another average run of the mill stf. story. Highly illogical, and unconvincing, especially when you consider that the speed of transmission of earthquake shocks can be accounted for only by a solid core with a density equalling that of nickel-iron.
The plot of “Phantom of the Seven Stars,” bears a remarkable resemblance to another of his stories I have recently read. Can it be we are due for a barrage of stor es of this type ?
“Twilight of the Tenth World” is the worst story written by Ayre to date. It is the most illogical story I have read this year, bar none.
I guess I praised Lynch too soon. To date he hasn’t equalled his first illustration. His rocket ships are the most illogical and impractical I have ever seen. They look just like an indifferent mass of divers old oil cans, scraps of galvanized sheet iron and odd bits of window glass, haphazardly welded together, to form a shapeless ungainly multi-scctioned mess. And those white worms wriggling over the background, ug'gh.
Yours truly,
Fred Hurter, Jr.
P. S. Enclosed is a rough sketch of the type of rocket ship mentioned in “Phantom of the Seven Stars.”
Ed.'s Note: Sorry we haven’t snacc to reproduce Hurler’s excellent space-ship. It does, as he says, fit the description, is simple, streamlined and sane.
WHATEVER YOU DO,
DON’T MISS THIS!	22S Second St.,
Dear Editor:	California, Pa.
Yesterday while looking over the fantasy shelf at the corner newsstand, I saw, for the first time, a copy of Planet Stories. Thought I, I'll just try that. And, to my great surprise, it was the best stf mag. I ever tried. The only fault I have to find is that Planet Stories is a quarterly. Couldn’t we have at least a monthly publication on it?
Well, here and now I give thanks and many tributes to one of your staff for a fine piece of work. Yes, it goes to none other than the Editor of The Vizigraph. The Vizigraph is, in my opinion, the best letter dept. I have ever read. And let me say that I read them all. I believe that there are more really intelligent persons writing to The Vizigraph than to all the rest of the letter dept, of Stf Mags combined. At least all the letters published in the winter issue struck me as being written by folks who knew exactly what they wanted to say, and said it. Keep up the present status quo of The Vizigraph and you have found a new reader of Planet Stories whether the rest of the mag is any good or not. Which it was, plenty. The idea of presenting the original drawings is certainly tops. Here’s hoping I see this in Thi Vizigraph in order to compete for one of these.
Second place goes to the feature Planet novel by Eando Binder, “One Thousand Miles Below,” one of the best of this type I have ever had the pleasure of reading. But what could one expect but'the best from the pages of one of Binder’s stories ?
Third place to Paul for his illustration of this story. I hope this is one that is to be presented (That is if I have a chance of getting it.)
“Beyond Light,” by Nelson S. Bond takes the fourth vote. A swell plot, a he-man hero and a beautiful girl. All we needed was the beasts and in the bat-men we found a new idea for villains on other worlds. All in all, a swell yam which supplied me minutes of pleasant reading.
Fifth: “Phantom of the Seven Stars,” by Ray Cummings. I only wish I could give him first place as he is one of my favorites, but this time, at least, Binder beat him out.
Sixth: ‘"Atom of Death,” by Ross Rocklynne. A dandy little yarn.
Seventh place: To Hannes Bok for the illustration of the story, “The Stellar Legion," which gets my vote for eighth.
Ninth: "Twilight of the Tenth World,” by Thornton Ayre.
Tenth: “The Castaway," by Danzell.
Eleventh place goes to D. L. James for his yarn, "Exit from Asteroid 60.”
Well, Ed, this letter, I realize, will never win the winter Paul drawing or the Bok either, but anyhow I hope I see it in The Vizigraph.
A few suggestions follow. If I might be so bold as to offer such to an Editor who puts out such a fine mag.
Keep Paul and Bok. Never let them go. Get Virgil Finley, he’s good for anything. Give us a fantasy now and then. I realize that this is Planet Stories, but remember fantasy can happen anywhere.
So now, if you have waded through all this I will sign off with a vote for each of the following in the order named:
1.	Charles Hidley. . . . He’s tried so hard to get that Paul. (I hope this will help him get one.)
2.	Emrys Evans. Because he writes a siiarp, short letter and not a lot of trying reading for the poor editor.
3.	Bob Tucker. Because I think he knows what he’s talking about, and I surely agree with him on many counts.
So now I sign off hoping to receive a Paul or Bok in the future, I remain a future reader of Planet Stories.
</body>

</html>