<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
    <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>

<body id="story">
    <h1>VAMPIRE OF THE VOID</h1>
    <h2><i>By Neil R. Jones</i></h2>

    <p class="blurb">Aonis was the loveliest creature la fear worlds—and the msat evil. A 26th Ceatary Circe whose arats prealised Paradise, hat whose kiss was Death</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps3">B</span>ORN and carefully developed from minute life cells in the laboratories of the Oklahoma Sanctuary, Aonis never knew any childhood. A perfect infant, she was subjected to the blue, vibrating haze of the aging chamber’s concentrated environment where the cells of her tody underwent rapid changes. Several minutes only were required to age the infant into a perfect specimen of womanhood such as had never been seen on any of the three worlds, for thanks to the scheming outlawed cult Aonis was beautiful beyond description. Her brain, however, harbored less intelligence than that of an idiot, for the aging chambers of the Duma Rangue developed only physically, not mentally. Mental replacement and development depended upon the skilled brain transposition of the Asurians. For a long time, Aonis lay in a comatic condition close to that of death, while the priests of the Asurian cult labored diligently upon the patient and delicate task of giving Aonis a peculiar intelligence and mental power equal to her matchless physique.</p>
    <p>No one brain was employed in supplying Aonis with a normal capacity of intelligence. There were carefully selected parts from many human brains floating in a preservative fluid in transparent jars on the shelves of the laboratories. These preserved parts from neophytes and past victims of the cult were carefully catalogued psychologically, and where desired elements were found wanting the Asurians did not hesitate to supply them from among their neophytes, mainly from among those who slumbered in the dream life of the synthetic lifetime.</p>
    <p>Aonis, recalled to consciousness, was not only a masterpiece of exquisite beauty but a personality of charm which was not exclusively dependent upon her physical perfection. They had not made her a mental genius. That was not their design. In the first place, Aonis w'as purely an experiment. In this latter phase of the 26th Century, the Duma Rangue held rule over the earth in conjunction with the space pirates who had united with the cult in conquering a surprised w'orld.</p>
    <p>Two centuries previous, the earth had known the Duma Rangue as a cult of scientific radicals practicing condemned sciences. From the earth, the cult had been banished to Mars where they had continued their inhuman practices in catacombs of the gray cliffs by the Silmono desert. Forced to leave, they had fled across space to a secret refuge in the little moon Oberon in the system -of Uranus. For two hundred years, unsuspected and believed dead, the legendary cult planned and grew in power. They finally united with the space pirates and conquered the earth in a single, smashing attack. A blanket of rays surrounding the outlawed world kept off the Interplanetary Guard from the sister worlds of Mars and Venus w'hich had been colonized from the earth and built into equal power during the past three centuries. Under the slightly moderating hand of the cult, the space pirates ruled as absolute monarchs. The Asurians were content to remain in the depths of their semi-subterranean sanctuaries all over the earth, experimenting and planning the conquest of Mars and Venus, giving them absolute control of the solar system.</p>
    <p>Aonis had been created by the cult with no other thought in mind than to study her possibilities and perhaps inculcate these into their future plans of conquest. They meant Aonis to be not only irresistible to the sight of men but destructive as well. There was apparently no flaw in the physical fascination and voluptuous beauty of Aonis, yet through Iter veins flowed violent death, a strange, chemical life-mixture concocted by the evil and inhuman intelligence of the Asurians. Her dark and softly compelling eyes were meant to bring men to a poisonous embrace where even the sweat pores exuded death. It was talked among the Asurians that Aonis was a double experiment. If she proved a feasible link in their plans they would create others of her kind without the faculty of producing death, creatures as irresistible as she but with normal blood systems.</p>
    <p>Dark, shimmering tresses fell about her shoulders, veiling the soft texture of arms a sculptor might have dreamed. Her skin was light like the petals of a delicate lily. When she opened her shapely mouth to speak, her voice was soft and tinkling like little bells. Her movements were majestic and sinuous, her diaphanous cloak enhancing, rather than concealing, her seductive charm. From the languorous pools of her eyes there emanated a peculiar, hypnotic quality foreign to that exercised by the Asurians, making any man who looked upon her beauty maddeningly desirous of her. To the immovable Asurians, who had lived for more than two centuries and were without age, and were proof against the less violent forms of death, she was only a biologic product of their genius. But this was not so among the other creatures of the cult, whether dwarves, insect-men or unchanged neophytes, and Aonis was finally ordered to go veiled and less revealingly cloaked.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>OR one who had never been beyond the .walls of the sanctuary and had never seen civilization, Aonis held a surprising amount of knowledge .concerning it.</p>
    <p>Early in her career, not long after her return to consciousness following her brain transpositions, she was given a test by the watchful Asurians who brought a neophyte out of the synthetic lifetime and exposed him to her fatal attraction. The experience thrilled her strangely, even as the priests of the cult had expected that it should. The effect of Aonis upon the neophyte satisfied them. In this, her first experience, she felt her mind guided slightly by the Asurians as if they partly doubted her initiative and were telling her what they wished her to do.</p>
    <p>She saw the neophyte stumble forward, and she obeyed the whisper in her mind to offer herself. The neophyte clasped her to him with a sigh of rapt ecstasy. This first experience surprised her for her next act was not of her own dictation. She thought about it afterward and guessed it was a design of her masters, yet in later years she wondered. Her brain was a strange assortment of past lives whose memories were not fully erased by the Asurians. She pressed her lips to those of the neophyte who seemed to expect the act. His arms tightened about her, and then she felt him quiver slightly. He became as motionless as stone, and the warmth of his body seemed suddenly drained from him. With difficulty, she drew herself from his motionless figure. This, too, was a prompting of the Asurians, for after her first surprise she had lacked any initiative of her own contrivance.	-</p>
    <p>Everyone stood strangely silent—Asurians, attendant dwarves and insect-men. The neophyte’s expression changed. Aonis saw him fall over suddenly, and then his-legs and arms and the muscles of his face commenced to contort. His eyes bulged and rolled horribly, and his muscles twitched spasmodically. She knew that he was dying and that she had killed him, yet she felt no remorse. Her only emotion was one of thrilling mastery, of satisfaction, as though something anticipated had risen to confirm itself. Yet this anticipation had not been there before. Both anticipation and realization were more like an echo thrown back out of nowhere, except that the realization existed tangibly before her very eyes. The neophyte’s face turned green. A rasping issuance of air from his lungs heralded his end. He lay still. The dwarves picked him up and carried him away. The aspirations of the Asurians had been realized.</p>
    <p>Aonis was given quarters of her own on one of the higher levels. Served by female neophytes, she rarely encountered anyone else. The insect-men, as she had later occasion to learn, were more man than insect. They were human bodies surmounted with the heads of enormous insects. And then there were invisible neophytes whom she never saw but whose presence she felt whenever they were about. These had represented painstaking experiment. Two centuries earlier, the best results of the cult had only made the flesh of these experiments invisible, giving them the ghastly appearance of animate skeletons. But during their long stay in Oberon, the cult had finally mastered invisibility of bone structure through repeated trial by formulae. Along with these two groups were the dwafves. Originally full grown men, they had been reduced by atom compression to but half their normal stature and girth. They were as heavy as they had ever been, and they were many times stronger than before. Glands from the great Martian ants had been grafted into their bodies. The shortening of the orbits of their electrons, however, had dulled their intelligence.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HERE was one exception to their stupid lot and that was Grimo. He represented a more careful experiment by the Asurians, and he had remained mentally astute in spite of the compression process. Although Aonis was able to exert her power over any of the dwarfs or other monsters of the cult, Grimo seemed especially susceptible and greatly desirous of her. He had been present at the initial display of her terrible heritage and had seen the fate of the neophyte. In his calmer moments, Grimo was frightened by thoughts of her, yet he never saw her but what she was aware of the magnetic longing she exerted upon him. One of the Asurians told her that it was Grimo who had brought her out of the aging chambers and that he had almost caused her to be dropped and injured when one of the priests had taken her infant body into the chamber.</p>
    <p>For this, and other reasons she was at a loss to logically explain, Aonis develop! a malicious dislike for the mentally endowed dwarf. She longed to sweep him into her devastating embrace, to let him taste of her kisses that she might feel the exhilarating thrill of his dying quivers. She dare not satisfy such desires, for she feared the wrath of the cult. Grimo was definitely one of their more successful experiments.</p>
    <p>But her instinctive love of killing diverted her to other fields of conquest. She cast discretion aside and lured one of the invisible neophytes to her cham-l>ers where she played with him like a cat with a mouse, holding him away from her and eluding his amorous attempts until finally his more virile strength overcame her own. Once again she thrilled to the feel of death in her embrace, this time holding her victim until the last exertion of his agony, only then relaxing to let his invisible, lifeless body slip to the floor.</p>
    <p>Aonis had figured that her work would never be discovered. Who would find the invisible corpse if it were carried to a remote and rarely used corridor? But here she reckoned without the aid of experience. Invisibility developed by the Asurians depended to a certain extent on continuous heart action and blood circulation. Aonis was shocked to see the faint outlines of her victim lying at full length on the floor. Slowly, the body became clearer. She saw a tinge of green color his face, the tell-tale mark of her handiwork. Her exultation and strange sense of satisfaction vanished suddenly as she feared the consequences of her vicious act. She waited until she was sure of eluding discovery, and then she carried the semi-visible corpse down a long, unfinished tunnel and left it in the gloom. This success, and an eventual yearning for another such experience soon made her sufficiently bold to again lure a victim to her embrace. This time, however, she did not take him to her chambers but to the dark, unfinished tunnel where lay her last victim. Nor did she pick one of the invisible neophytes. This time, it was a neophyte who had only recently been moved to the sanctuary and was soon to enjoy the dream life in one of the coffin baths. He had sold himself to the cult in exchange for a synthetic lifetime. The Asurians were cheated of their bargain. So was the neophyte. His corpse joined the first one at the end of the tunnel. Aonis once more felt herself strangely satisfied.</p>
    <p>More victims came to be thrown upon the decaying heap at the end of the tunnel. This time, the Asurians had done their devilish work too well and had created a Frankenstein monster in the guise of glamorous beauty and ineffable sweetness. Dwarfs, neophytes and even insect-men were lured by the art of Aonis into her deadly embrace. She longed to lure Grimo to her arms but dared not because he would immediately be missed. Once, she met the dwarf on one of the upper levels, luring him to her in spite of the fact that he shut her off from his vision with upraised hands. When he came close to her, she pushed him backward and ran.</p>
    <p>The Asurians finally commenced to miss certain victims they had either created or had lured from the life beyond the sanctuary walls. They did not suspect Aonis at first. They thought of escape. It was one of the terseg birds who brought about the discovery of Aonis’ deadly courtships. Originally a native bird of Mars, the Durna Rangue had taken these birds and given them a limited intelligence by transposition of small parts from the human brain. Their tongues had been split for speech. Possessed of memory and reasoning power, they were valuable to the cult. It was one of these who followed a neophyte in curiosity and saw him lured by Aonis into the old tunnel far beneath the ground level of the sanctuary. From a rugged perch near the ceiling, the bird watched the procedure of death, then flew silently to one of the Asurians and chattered its discovery.</p>
    <p>Aonis was apprehended and severely reprimanded, yet the Asurians, though contemplating the chamber of emerald torture, could not bring themselves to subject her to it. For one thing, they did not want her to lose her queenly attitude for a more servile one which the emerald torture would implant upon her brain.- And they also realized that their own zealous efforts were largely responsible for this deadly, predatory instinct of Aonis toward men. On consultation, they decided on a small readjustment of her mental qualities, and an operation took place. One more, Aonis lay upon a laboratory table beneath the strong lights and gray-cowled heads of the Asurians. Dwarfs and insect-men stood by to execute the orders of their masters.</p>
    <p>The change immediately following the operation was only slight. She still felt the instinct to lure men with her beauty and destroy them by physical contact, but the urge was no longer overpowering. She now felt herself under the mental control of the Asurians more than ever. Only once after this did they have cause to suspect her of her old habits. Grimo dropped suddenly from sight and could be found nowhere in the sanctuary. Aonis suddenly found herself under an inquisition of mental torment where her memory was traced back diligently and more carefully retraced by the deep, probing mentalities of the Asurians when they discovered her secret desire to kill Grimo. But she was finally absolved. Grimo had escaped into the affairs of a turbulent world beyond the sombre walls of the grim, gray sanctuary. How he had made his escape remained a mystery, yet the priests laid it to some carefully prepared bit of trickery by the astute dwarf.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">F</span>ROM this time on, the mind of Aonis underwent a slow, subtle change. More and more, memories of things she had never known rose up before her in moments of deep meditation or introspection, memories which had their origin in the brain parts of other lives. More and more, instincts more human than those given her by the priests arose from many untraced yesterdays to confuse and arouse in her new thoughts. More and more, these individual brain parts came to assert themselves more prominently and less as a combined unit. Sometimes, they dashed. In short, Aonis came to find herself a character of many facets and moods.</p>
    <p>She came to know what loneliness was, and sometimes she yearned for various things without knowing what they really were or if any such things so blurred and unreal in her subconscious mind really existed at all. At times, the urge to kill once more became strong. Yet again, she often recalled with shuddering abhorrence the pile of dead bodies in the far end of the ■unfinished tunnel. At times, she knew what it was to become remorseful, and these strange elements of conscience she never fully understood. The strangest occurrence came to her one day in the years that followed. Her thoughts forced her to tears. Dimly, she recalled that a female neophyte had once acted so, but she could not recall the reason. Aonis knew that she was undergoing some kind of a change and attributed to it the tears which coursed down the ethereal loveliness of her face. The tears were accompanied at a later date with sobs. Aonis had become more emotional, and the cold self control she had once known was no longer hers except at rare intervals when she occasionally felt like her old self. Whenever she felt herself under the direction of the Asurians, all her new feeling* and thoughts quickly vanished, and she was as the Asurians had intended her to be.</p>
    <p>Though Aonis had changed mentally and spiritually, her physical propensities had undergone no radical change. She was as beautiful as ever and just as deadly. In nearly a decade which had passed, there was not the slightest traces of age or further maturity. She remained as the aging chamber had left her, in the prime, beauty and youth of her womanhood. From time to time, the priests of the cult conducted further experiments and gave her new victims. Although she always enjoyed these experiments which were conducted under the direction of the Asurians, she afterward had periods of horror and remorse once she was alone. Had she known more about the ways of civilization and less about the principles of the cult, she might have experienced a realization of selfdegradation. As it was, the instincts of past lives harbored furtively in her brain were quite reproachful in their rather irf comprehensible manner.</p>
    <p>Her venomous blood and its kindred secretions were as deadly in their rapid and horrible effects as ever. Wherever moisture accumulated in her body, from the tiniest sweat gland to her life blood, there lay virulent poison. In appearance, she was a woman; in ability, the Asurians had created a biologic machine. Her blood was not like human blood or like that of any animal either in chemical content or appearance. Yet her mind, formerly a part of that organic mechanism was straying gradually to a more harmonious union with her feminine appearance.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">N</span>EW subjects for experiment were always being brought to the sanctuary. Some of them came willingly, yielding to the lure of a synthetic lifetime where they might realize to fantastic lengths the pinnacles of their desires and aspirations. The dream life held forth an appeal to those dispirited and downtrodden by life, to those who were sensuous and weak, and even to those who had run the gamut of worldly experience and no longer found an interest in that which was tangible and real. These came willingly. There were those drafted by the cult who did not come willingly but for reasons psychological or physical were desired by the cult for definite reasons. With an entire world for their stock room, the sanctuaries of the Asurians never lacked for material. Even people on the other worlds were not safe. The space pirates made occasional raids when they were able to elude the Interplanetary Guard.</p>
    <p>One day, from behind her veil, Aonis saw a neophyte who aroused a strange interest in her. She had never seen him before. The man was evidently a new arrival, and from what she could judge he had come willingly. Something about him suggested the thought. He was tall, handsome and ruggedly built, strange fires alight in his dark blue eyes. It was his eyes which first attracted Aonis. They were unlike the terrible, magnetic qualities of the Asurians, yet something about them drew her as strongly. The neophyte gave her little more than a. passing glance. He had already seen too many strange and unbelievable things in the sanctuary to which he had come to take particular notice of a veiled and shrouded woman.</p>
    <p>Aonis once again felt excited within her that desire to bring the new neophyte to her destructive embrace. She had not known it so compellingly since the Asurians had operated on her brain. Still, small voices within her protested. Other than from a guilty fear of the Asurians, she had never experienced any misgivings. She wondered vaguely about many things. Why did this new neophyte instil once again in her the insidious desire to kill? She thought that she had become mistress of her strange passion. Once'more it was raising its insatiable head to crowd out every other thought and cry hungrily for another victim. She had not felt like this since she had longed to embrace Grimo. She suddenly suspected subtle directions of the Asurians preying upon her mind, yet she was unable to confirm the suspicion. The initiative undoubtedly arose from within herself. Once more she was the all-destroying, dark angel ready to haunt the labyrinthine galleries of the sanctuary for more male victims.</p>
    <p>The newly developed tendencies of her mind commenced their stubborn battle, and she gave full reign and consideration but they were lacking in dominant qualities against the overpowering, tidal rush of her deadly instincts so artfully cultured by the Asurians. She learned where the neophyte was quartered; then once again she commenced weaving the web which was to entice and snare him. Something new occurred to her. She had always known regular periods of sleep which had remained unaffected by her past experiences. Now, she remained sleepless, her consciousness dwelling perpetually upon the neophyte she had seen. She was puzzled, a little uneasy and frightened. She felt unsure of herself, and uncertain as to what her next acts would be.</p>
    <p>The first step was to let the neophyte see her unveiled, to let him look upon the rare flower of her beauty. She must proceed furtively, she knew. None of the Asurians nor even their humblest minion must catch her in the act of seduction. She remembered the hated tersegs and vowed that the evil, intelligent birds would not catch her off her guard again. By a devious route, she visited his chamber while he slept. He lay peacefully upon his pallet. For a long time, Aonis stood and looked at him with a queer sensation she had never experienced before. The thrill which ran down her spine made her suddenly aware that she was losing confidence in herself. No longer was she the intelligent siren the cult had fashioned to serve its ends. With mingled emotions, she stood and gazed at him, pushing back the veil from her face that she might see better. The neophyte stirred uneasily in his sleep, arousing her to her purpose. The tones of her voice broke the hush of the chamber like the tinkling of silver bells.</p>
    <p>“Awaken!”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HE neophyte stirred slowly and came to an elbow, looking up at the figure standing silently and majestically before him. He stared in unbelieving admiration. His eyes wandered in perplexity around the chamber, and then he looked down at himself before he once more contemplated Aonis. Slowly, she unfastened the dark cloak which the priests of the cult had made her wear, revealing to the bewildered neophyte all the dazzling charm and magic of her beauty. The neophyte held his swift intake of breath as he felt his eyes locked by those of Aonis. She was gradually regaining her composure. The lack of it had been but a passing of deranged emotions.</p>
    <p>“The dream life!” the neophyte breathed audibly. "So soonl They told me—they told me I would have to wait longer— much longer—but—”</p>
    <p>He was talking more to himself than to Aonis, his mumbled words trailing each other haltingly.</p>
    <p>“I am no dream,” Aonis’ voice tingled sweetly. “Come and take me. I am yours.”</p>
    <p>"The dream life,” persisted the neophyte, his faculties still numbed by his recent sleep. He arose and swayed toward her.</p>
    <p>“No,” Aonis shook her head slowly, "those in the synthetic lifetime do not look upon their experience as a dream. I am real.”</p>
    <p>"Who—who are you?”</p>
    <p>“Aonis.”</p>
    <p>His eyes mirrored ecstasy. He steadied himself and walked toward her. A nameless foreboding shook Aonis, yet she banished it. She knew that it would not be wise to lure him to his death in his own chamber.</p>
    <p>“You must follow me,” she warned him, “but not too closely, and if I tell you that you must return here and follow me no further you must do so.”</p>
    <p>“I would do anything you asked of me—anything!” the neophyte replied huskily. “You are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen! I still cannot believe you to be true! My eyes deceive me 1 It is more of the cult’s wizardry!”</p>
    <p>How true the neophyte came in this latter surmise he little realized. Faithfully, he crept along behind Aonis at a respectful distance, realizing that he might lose this delightful vision if he disobeyed her. Aonis was once more cloaked and veiled. The old demands of her instincts once more glowed with the pleasant anticipations of holding love and death simultaneously. By a roundabout route, she headed for the abandoned tunnel which was conveniently near. Habit and memory once more associated themselves with the insatiable craving which pervaded and motivated her. Her own tread was noiseless. That of the neophyte she heard behind her. Aonis reached the tunnel, turned and beckoned him to follow her and maintain his silence.</p>
    <p>She took him nearly to the end. Her heart beat madly, and her movements were less deliberate than usual as she wrenched aside her veil and tore off the concealing cloak. The neophyte stood motionless, dazzled ' by her unconcealed loveliness in the faint, semi-illumination from the unfinished walls of the tunnel. Aonis had never felt like she did at that moment, and she was nearly as overcome by her emotions as the stricken neophyte. She wanted to lift her arms to receive him in his brief moment of ecstasy but they remained immovable. Again she suddenly realized that her self-mastery had deserted her and that she was the victim of strange, inner workings foreign to those the Asurians had created.</p>
    <p>The neophyte advanced to take her in his arms. Straight into his eyes she looked as she had looked into the love hungry eyes of all her victims, but this time something within her shrank away from this victim she had prized so highly. An image of his face turned green and his body drawn into painful contortions and lying upon a heap of other bodies flashed upon her as memory and prophecy united to leap before Aonis in a flaming glare of stark truth.</p>
    <p>Her desires reverted suddenly to shuddering abhorrence, and she who had always received her doomed lovers with open arms took several backward steps to escape the reaching hands of the fascinated neophyte. His breath coming in quick alternations of heavy sighs and murmured phrases of adoration and worship, the neophyte hurried forward to seize her. Aonis had no way of stopping him. Her powers were not for that, and he had seen too much of her and was too far within her spell to be repulsed. Poor Aonis. The embrace of the impassioned neophyte had suddenly become the last thing she ever wanted to happen. The neophyte was upon her, his warm, trembling hand grasping her cold arm to pull her toward him. She wriggled in fright as she felt his hot breath on her face and his groping lips lightly brushed her cheek. She partly escaped from him and stumbled, a little stab of pain striking through her knee as she struck a stone on the floor of the tunnel. Her free hand searched for and found it. Leaning far back and turning her head from the neophyte’s face, she struck him sharply on the head with the stone and slid out of the way as his body relaxed and crumpled to the floor.</p>
    <p>Rising to her feet, she ran back down the tunnel, her thin undergarment fluttering in the breeze made by her passage. Quite suddenly, she paused in her impetuous flight l>efore reaching the juncture of the tunnel and a cross corridor. Less swiftly and more surely, she ran back up the tunnel and retrieved her cloak and veil. The neophyte lay where she had left him, a small, red trickle from his head slowly forming a pool on the floor of the tunnel. She made her way carefully back to her quarters, frightened and trembling. Her nerves were completely gone, and when she reached the sanctity of her own chamber she threw herself on her bed, and burst into tears.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span>GAIN there was no sleep for Aonis as her thoughts and fears ran a vicious circle. She feared that she had killed him. It was a forlorn paradox that at first she hoped that she had. Then she repented her selfish desire that he be erased from her. life forever and wished that she might sacrifice her own miserable existence to save him. She was glad, however, that she had resisted him, for had she caused his death with her accursed beauty she knew now that she would have killed herself, putting an end to her strange life which had become so unhappy of late. From this, she reasoned that it might have been a better end had she yielded. They could have died together. Yet she could not bring herself to bear the thoughts of his dying. But what better lay at the hands of the Asurians? The synthetic lifetime? After that, life’s harsh reality Itecame more hitter than ever, especially so in one of the sanctuaries. She wondered if she had killed him. The tears came again. Finally, after hours of alternate hope and despair, she drifted off into a fitful and broken slumber.</p>
    <p>Aonis awakened with a clearer understanding. She had learned enough of the outer world to realize by this time that she was in love. The Asurians had not counted on this, nor had Aonis. Strange workings had gone on inside the brain that was no single mind. The neophyte’s attraction for her she had misinterpreted as her returning passion to kill, and not until she was upon the threshold of the damning act had she realized the devastating futility she was about to perform. She must never see him again, she knew. It was for his own good, she reasoned. Yet she subsequently relinquished this vow with a reservation of seeing him occasionally without letting him see her. She needed that much solace. How strangely different she had become. She was not like the Aonis'who had responded so satisfactorily to the tests of the Asurians. The difference might have laid in the fact that Aonis had developed a soul, something still beyond the ken of the Duma Rangue. Suffice it to say, however, that many womanly instincts previously warped, perverted or supposedly effaced by the Asurians had aroused themselves and were gaining an ascendancy over the biologic mechanism the Asurians had fashioned.</p>
    <p>The plan of Aonis to see him again without his seeing her was forestalled. The neophyte came to her chambers. She had lain herself down and was just drifting off to sleep. Her serving women had left her, and at first she thought that one of tliem had returned for something. Then she saw the eyes of the neophyte, those eyes which had first attracted her, distended in reverence and fascination at her loveliness. She knew that he must not see her so lightly clad. Once more he stood in great danger of her captivating beauty. With a lithe, supple movement, she sprang up and seized her cloak, quickly wrapping herself to the chin in its loose, hanging folds. The ethereal beauty of her face mirrored her alarm.</p>
    <p>"You should never come here!” she protested.</p>
    <p>"I had to see you!”</p>
    <p>"I am not what I seem!” pleaded Aonis. “I mean only death to you!”</p>
    <p>"Yes—I know,” the neophyte admitted. "You are Aonis. You are poisonous as a viper. I have learned that from others here.”</p>
    <p>“Then—why do you come?”</p>
    <p>"Why does any man come to you, Aonis, even though he knows that the next minute may be his last? Nor would I care much now.”</p>
    <p>A hopelessness in the neophyte’s eyes and in his words brought forth a tenderness from her heart which she strove to mask behind her cold, dispassionate gaze. It was in her heart to dismiss him at once for his own safety, threatening to call one of the dwarves or insect-men, but a yearning desire to see him and talk with him overcame her better judgment, and she motioned him to a settee near the wall.</p>
    <p>“If you were caught here, it would mean trouble for us both,” she told him, sitting back on her lounge. “For you, it would mean restrictions; for me,...” She sighed and wondered, remembering the last brain operation. She turned the conversation, asserting a womanly curiosity. “Did you come among the Asurians because you wanted to come, or were you brought here?”</p>
    <p>“I came freely.”</p>
    <p>"The dream lifetime?”</p>
    <p>The neophyte nodded.</p>
    <p>“Why? Did you become tired of the world?”</p>
    <p>"Somewhat, but I became more disappointed with myself. The life I have led has not been a good one. Repentance, you might call it. The world offers nothing more for me.”</p>
    <p>“But there are other worlds,” suggested Aonis, “though I have heard that escape from the earth is very difficult.”</p>
    <p>"I might make it," the neophyte admitted. “I have been a space pirate under Regnand, and I know where all the space locks are. It is difficult and expensive to bribe your way out, and, of course, no one ever comes in that way. Even if I could win my way free of the earth, the prospects do not hold any future for me. I have killed too wantonly, and my victims liaunt me. They stay in my mind. I could not forget them even if I traveled to the orbits of Neptune and Pluto and into the unexplored beyond.”</p>
    <p>“I have never been out of this sanctuary,” said Aonis. “What are these rays that surround the earth and keep enemy ships away ? Do they shine at night ?”</p>
    <p>“No. They are invisible, yet any ship which comes in contact with them is blasted to pieces by an automatic concentration at that point. Only one man knows how to win through them unharmed, and lie is Lindquist, the sworn enemy and bane of the Duma Rangue. He is a lone pirate outlawed by civilization and an enemy of the earthly pirates, too. He is said to be somewhat mad, but he is infernally clever. He comes to the earth whenever he likes and seems to delight in harassing the cult. He has been known to invade the sanctuaries and slay priests and monsters alike.</p>
    <p>“And escape?” breathed Aonis incredulously. ,</p>
    <p>"And escape. I was in a ship once that gave chase with others. He quickly outdistanced us. He has a pair of ships he stole from the Interplanetary Guard, and the ships of the guardsmen are the swiftest in the solar system.”</p>
    <p>Recovering from her surprise that there should be someone able to flout the Asurians and make them know fear, Aonis’ next question came closer to her personal interests.</p>
    <p>“What is your name?”</p>
    <p>“Nord Hammerell.”</p>
    <p>“Earthly bom?”</p>
    <p>“No—on Venus. I ran away from home and realized a childish ambition to join the space pirates while I was little more than a boy. Later, I was in the battle of the Asiatic outposts when the earth was conquered, after which, we strengthened the fleet which bombarded the western Atlantic seaboard. There was the hardest fighting, the stubbornest resistance.”</p>
    <p>A world of living reflected itself from the face of the neophyte who had still many years to live before middle age came upon him. For a long time, they sat and talked. It was the first time Aonis had ever had a companion with whom to talk. The Asurians had taught her much, both subconsciously and directly, yet their council was always intellectual and given on biased aims of their own. Many of the little details of worldly life winch she had wondered about had gone unanswered. She marveled at the restraint under which the neophyte held himself, often catching him looking away from her face while he spoke in order to resist her magnetic attraction. She was on the point of veiling herself several times, but some strange prank of her mentality kept her from it as long as the neophyte did not yield to the constant temptation. She wanted him to look upon her face. She realized that after he was gone. It was a mischievous urge, and she felt reproachful of herself. It was putting too much of a burden on him. And it was tempting a grim fate.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">S</span>HE knew that it was much too dangerous for him to come to her chambers, and so they contrived to meet secretly, spending much time in each others’ company. From him, she learned of his past life and of the three worlds and their colonies. She kept herself cloaked in spite of Nord's pleas and entreaties. Sometimes, especially if he sat close to her, she remained veiled. She also came to wear gloves of a light, delicate texture used by the Asurians in their operations, in order that she might touch him without fear of causing his death. She knew that if a finger nail scratched him, or sweat from her hand should saturate his pores, her lover would die as surely as those who had copie to her embrace had died before him. She told Nord of her love for him and allowed his embrace of her cloaked figure while she passed her gloved fingers slowly through his shock of curly blond hair and felt his face pressing hers through the folds of her veil. Only at a distance did she allow him to look upon her face. Her own passions she held in an iron grip while he was near, and often she was glad that under the existent circumstances the cult had inculcated in her a faculty for resistance. But this faculty was not always dependable, she later discovered, and while more often she fled from his embrace when his ardor reached too dangerous a stage, on rare occasions she had to run from him because of herself.</p>
    <p>There were times when she declared to him that their love was a curse, and that it should never have been. He, on the contrary, proclaimed it the most wonderful thing that had ever happened to him in his lifetime of disillusionment and regret. Fact had dispossessed logic entirely. Created as a deadly illusion by the cult, Aonis had become the only comfort of Nord in a world of reality which he found bitter. Aonis was to him like a living dream, as if she had stepped from out of a figment of the synthetic lifetime to face the world as a tangible thing. Nord meanwhile delayed his entrance into the synthetic lifetime, and the Asurians had no reasons for hurrying him.</p>
    <p>Several times since her acquaintance with Nord, Aonis had been used by the Asurians for experiments with the same results as always. She feared that they might probe into her mind and discover her secret love. For this reason, she always went through with her deadly routine to the entire satisfaction of the Asurians, lest they seize hold of her mind in their directive powers and find something amiss. Once their investigations were excited she knew that there would be no more meetings with Nord. They continued their secret trysts, each finding comfort in the other. Nord had nothing to live for except Aonis. Prospects of a synthetic lifetime had drifted to the tack-ground. To Aonis, Nord had come like a beam of light out of Stygian gloom to echo the answer of her soul’s desires. To Nord, Aonis was like a golden sunset. He might bathe in the radiance of her beauty but could never touch her.</p>
    <p>Life continued on its quiet, undisturbed path in the sanctuary, unmoved by the world’s turmoil and trouble without the gray walls where space pirates ruled their divided realms of the earthly dominions. Neophytes came and went, were immersed in the gray gas of the coffin baths for their, synthetic lifetime, then turned into creatures of the cult’s following or transferred to another sanctury. Vaguely, one of the Asurians had referred to Nord’s choice after he had emerged from the dream life. He had come willingly and was to be given all consideration in the matter of choice. Nord had privately decided on becoming one of the invisible minions of the cult, but in view of the fact that it was his wish to delay the synthetic lifetime indefinitely, he had never mentioned his choice to the priests of the cult.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HEN, without warning, an event came to pass which upset the tranquillity of the Oklahoma Sanctury and plunged it into a maelstrom of death and destruction. For some peculiar reason of his own, Lindquist, the lone pirate, had chosen it as the object of one of his periodic forays against the cult. The first intimation of his presence reached the Asurians when terseg birds flew up from the broad chamber of the coffin baths and chattered excitedly of invaders who had shot at them with atom pistols. The first priest to investigate the report was immediately shot down. Lindquist had not come alone. He had fully a dozen supporters with him. They were in the chamber of the coffin baths looking for someone among the dream sleepers. Tersegs, fluttering wildly to escape the sharp aim of the atom pistols, watched their movements and reported their taking a young woman from her coffin bath.</p>
    <p>“The fools!” hissed a member of the gray-robed brethren. “She can do them no good! She is as good as dead without our means of resurrection!”</p>
    <p>“Why does Lindquist want her?”</p>
    <p>“Probably it is someone else who wants her—one of those with Lindquist—someone to whom she belonged before she was brought here.”</p>
    <p>The excited tersegs flew with more news. "A dwarf is with them! One of our little men! It was he who read the inscriptions on the receptacles for them!”</p>
    <p>“There are two red swordsmen and a Venusian troglodyte in the party 1”</p>
    <p>Later tidings brought out the fact that the invaders were heading for the laboratories. The Asurians sent a group of dwarfs and insect-men to intercept them. Fearful of the atom pistols, the Asurians remained far up the corridor at a safe distance, directing their minions. The dwarfs carried silver rods. Leveled at an enemy and pressed at the base, the rods sent emanations which caused explosion of the adrenal glands. Silent, blue flashes met the dwarfs and insect-men before they had an opportunity to direct an offensive. Nord, who was at that time serving one of the Asurians, watched the fray with his masters. The troglodyte was the first casualty among the invaders before they came to grips with the cult's monsters. He fell dead from the effects of an explosion rod, the two groups fighting hand to hand over his inert body.</p>
    <p>Blue shafts of death took an overwhelming toll among the dwarfs and insect-men. Mandibles of the latter snapped viciously. The red swordsmen were making good use of their natural blades until the mixed assemblage grew too close for their efficient use. One of the swordsmen went down beneath the attack of a dwarf. Mandibles of the insect-men were fastened on his throat. The forces of the cult, however, were being slaughtered by the atom pistols, especially those held by Lindquist, and the Asurians called them off to try collective mind force instead. The invaders continued their advance. A blue shaft penetrated perilously close to the group of cowled figures. The Asurians saw that one of them carried the unconscious woman taken from the coffin bath.</p>
    <p>“Those things on their heads!” exclaimed an Asurian, pulling the loose sleeve of his companion. "They are what Lindquist is reported to have worn before this on his raids—hypnotic nullifiers! They break down our mental radiations with static interference!”</p>
    <p>Beaten at this turn, the Asurians retreated into a side corridor but not before they had recognized one of the attacking party.</p>
    <p>"The dwarf is Grimo! How did he come to contact and ally himself to Lindquist?”</p>
    <p>"How did he ever escape here in the first place—and how did they get in here without our knowing it? I believe you might get the same answer from Grimo to both questons.”</p>
    <p>"We must have outside help. Here is a problem which is beyond our immediate solution. They can cause us great trouble here. They must not escape from the sanctuary by this mysterious way they came. All corriders surrounding them must be patrolled. Forces must be concentrated about the sanctuary. Lindquist’s space ship is about somewheres or else is returning for him.</p>
    <p>“Then we must notify the space pirates to come and be on the watch for his ship.”</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">N</span>ORD was immediately dispatched to others of the gray-robed masters with messages. He returned to find that the invaders were barricaded in one of the laboratories where Grimo, who was familiar with the resurrection process of the Asurians, was bringing back the woman from her synthetic lifetime. Grimo’s association with Lindquist and the others became clear. A greater concentration of the cult’s forces surrounded the laboratory but they were too late to block the designs of the invaders. Reports from the tersegs indicated as much. Grimo had accomplished the revival process. The woman had not yet recovered her senses, however.</p>
    <p>Invisible neophytes of the cult were concentrated in the chamber beyond the laboratory, the only avenue of escape. Not until they were among them and clinched in their invisible grasp did they realize their presence.</p>
    <p>"The invisible ones!” screamed Grimo. “They are here—all about us! Watch for weapons if they carry any! You can see them!”</p>
    <p>But the invisible ones carried no weapons, counting upon their unseen, overwhelming numbers. They had not counted upon the desperate fighting qualities of those they faced, nor upon the cool Ingenuity of Lindquist. With back to the wall and an atom pistol in each hand, the taciturn lone pirate sprayed the apparent emptiness of the chamber with a deadly barrage of blue death. Nevertheless, it was a hard-fought battle before the invisible neophytes were either killed or else driven back. Through it all, one of the invaders remained against the wall close to Lindquist, protecting the woman. The door which was barred to the invaders’ advance yielded to the knowledge of Grimo. Farther along the corridor beyond, a group of the insect-men were shot down or dispersed.</p>
    <p>“They will escape!” cried one of the Asurians, his hypnotic eyes blazing in futile rage at the receding figures.</p>
    <p>"The sanctuary is being well guarded from without, but we yet have a way to halt them, to overcome these men with a hypnotic power they cannot resist, a power against which those nullifiers will be impotent.”</p>
    <p>"Aonis!”</p>
    <p>“They are going in the right direction, too, and we can be there before them.”</p>
    <p>Aonis found herself slightly unnerved as the Asurians burst into her chambers. She knew that something had gone wrong in the sanctuary but had not learned of its nature. She was quickly told.</p>
    <p>“Grimo has come back to the sanctuary with them. Above all, do not let him get away.”</p>
    <p>Word was hurriedly passed along regarding the cautious advance of the invaders who were being followed at a respectful distance by several neophytes who had not yet participated in any of the fighting. In a chamber intersected by the corridor along which the invaders were seeking an escape stood Aonis, unveiled and uncloaked. She felt in her mind the strong, hypnotic power of the Asurians. They were not in sight, yet their influence lingered. She found revived in her the joy to kill. It swept her irresistibly. Grimo. Thoughts of meeting the dwarf again aroused keen anticipation. This time, there were no restraints. As she stood waiting, she wondered where Nord was, but sight of the fugitives drove thoughts of him from her mind. She thrilled to the duty at hand. Powerful instillation of the cult flooded her mind, and once more she was as they had originally made her.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">T</span>HERE were eight of them, including the woman who was carried by a young man. From what she had heard about the lone pirate, she instantly recognized Lindquist. He was dressed in black. His hair had started to gray at the temples, while in his cold, calculating eyes there lurked an essence of sadness and fatalism. The accompanying red swordsman was typical of his race. There was the black strip of color across his eyes. He was tall and sinewy, one arm terminating in the inevitable, bony blade. Her attentions focused on Grimo, as they all stopped suddenly at sight of her wraithlike figure. They were rooted to the spot by her matchless beauty. There emanated from her dark, piercing eyes, her red, voluptuous lips a subtle spirit of evil, yet she was irresistible. They wanted to be close to her, to clasp her seductive figure and feel her caressing lips upon them. Her voice, soft and tinkling, challenged them in tones rich with promise and enticement.</p>
    <p>“Where do you go?”</p>
    <p>“Aonis!” Grimo quavered, his voice divided between fear and yearning.</p>
    <p>“Why do you hurry?” she asked musically. “Stay with Aonis. Grimo, you loved me once. You have returned.”</p>
    <p>Grimo shuddered and raised his arms to shut from his sight the entrancing vision. He reached a hand to feel for the security of the mind protector which Lindquist had given him. He found it intact and groaned dismally as he realized its uselessness against the paralyzing fascination of</p>
    <p>Aonis. She saw that she held him in her power and glanced at the others. They were all bending to the thrall of her awful attraction though fully aware that her sweetness and allure veiled a bitterness both repulsive and deadly. Only Lindquist wavered hesitatingly from her attraction, and the red swordsman appeared' stolid and unmoved. But these strange men from Saturn’s satellite rarely showed their true emotions. Like one man, they walked slowly toward her, Grimo in the lead, his dark face radiating joy. Aonis held forth her arms to him, and her magic eyes enfolded him in a burning gaze which thrilled every fiber of his body. Lindquist suddenly stopped and aroused himself from the deadly spell by a supreme effort of the will and tore his eyes from her seductive beauty.</p>
    <p>“Stop!” he cried. "Stop! She is death itself!”</p>
    <p>His harsh, forceful words broke the magic lethargy momentarily like a dash of cold water. They all paused, with the exception of Grimo and another who was seized and dragged back by a companion. He would have held Grimo, too, but the dwarf snarled a curse and hurled him back among the others.</p>
    <p>“Kiss me, Grimo,” Aonis yielded herself invitingly. “It is long since I saw you last.”</p>
    <p>The dwarf stumbled into her arms as she bent her sinuous body to receive him. His arms went around her, and their lips met. For a half minute, Grimo, as in a stupor, froze to that deadly embrace while his companions looked on in mingled horror and envy. Then she slowly withdrew herself from him and turned her attention upon the others. Grimo stood as if carved of stone, his face frozen in rapture, unseeing, uncomprehending. Again, Aonis spoke in her silky, luring voice, this time to him who held the woman.</p>
    <p>“Who is he who would bring me a rival ? Let him forget her and give Aonis his love.”</p>
    <p>It was he who had robbed the coffin bath of the woman he now held. A sudden weakness assailed him as he found her irresistible eyes drawing him to her. There were conflicting thoughts in his mind, and he tried desperately to close his eyes. He found it impossible, and he yielded to the burning desire that she enfold him as she had Grimo. Mechanically, he handed the unconscious woman into the care of another and walked slowly toward her. The red swordsman, never changing his stolid expression, came behind the other, his eyes upon Aonis. Closer, ever closer, came the man until he stood directly before her. His senses reeled and were lost in the wondrous depths of her lustrous eyes. He saw her raise her arms to twine them around his neck. Her face came so close that he could feel her breath which was cold. He felt her arms about his neck as his brain reeled into langurous delirium.</p>

    <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span>T that moment, the red swordsman sprang suddenly forward. His long blade swished in a lightning arc, the tip catching and ripping the beautiful neck of Aonis. She sank upon the floor in a heap, her head lolling from her shoulders at a grotesque angle. A dark blotch of color spread from her neck, and an amber liquid welled up from the wound and formed a pool on the floor. Born of another race and upon another world, the red swordsman had remained sturdy proof against the deadly persuasions of the synthetic vampire. He had saved his young master.</p>
    <p>Both stepped back from the spreading pool of Aonis’ life blood. The tension was snapped. The man stepped back and reclaimed the woman who showed signs of coming to her senses. Their attentions now centered on Grimo. The dwarf swayed on his feet, no longer immersed in the intense delight which had been so evident in his expression. He seemed now to understand fully what had happened to him, and no man better than Grimo realized his doom. He regarded them with abandoned hope. Seized with a sudden paroxysm of agony, he fell in a writhing heap. Lindquist rushed to the dwarf’s side. Grimo gasped and stared at him from pain-maddened eyes.</p>
    <p>“Go! Go-o-o!” he groaned. “There is nothing to be done for me now! I know! O-h-h-h!”</p>
    <p>They were all beside him now. The dwarf’s face turned green. He was horrible to look upon, his blotched and tortured features contorting in pain.</p>
    <p>"Get away!” he gasped. "While you can! Away from this hell while—”</p>
    <p>His last words ended in a gurgle as every muscle twitched convulsively, then stiffened. His eyes turned up. He sighed and then was quiet.</p>
    <p>“Dead!” exclaimed Lindquist.</p>
    <p>They left the corpse of Grimo beside that of Aonis, and widely avoiding the spreading pool of her peculiar life blood they disappeared through the door opposite the way by which they had entered.</p>
    <p>For an interval of minutes, no one broke the silence which pervaded the chamber where two creatures of the cult lay dead. Then from the direction in which the eight fugitives had come a group of neophytes burst into the room. A single, understanding glance they gave the two bodies, and then they hurried on again, all except one. Nord stopped before Aonis, all the misery and bitterness in his heart finding utterance in a moan which passed from his lips as he kneeled and tenderly lifted her head in his lap. He looked at the closed eyes with the long lashes. She was dead. Heedless of her blood which stained his hands and arms, he pressed Aonis close to him and kissed her...</p>
</body>

</html>