<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body id="vizigraph">
        <h1>PS’s Feature Flash</h1>

        <p class="fp"><b><span class="dropcaps">F</span>lashing you the highlights on the men you’ve met in the preceding pages—those cosmic-minded writers and illustrators who help to nourish Planet Stories.</b></p>

        <h2 class="left">Meteoric Mr. Selwyn—</h2>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">A</span>NYBODY can be eaten by a five-hundred-pound bear in the Klondike. All you need is a railroad ticket and an overcoat. But it takes a man to interest those two-ton, four-eyed, ammonia-breathing tigerphants in the Frost Mountains on Jupiter. And an intelligent reader to appreciate him. A reader, who by his knowledge of astronomy and related science, realizes such things may be so and, by his quick imagination, appreciates their present fictional existence....</p>
        <p>Upon leaving the University of North Carolina, your author of “Revolt on the Earth-Star” suddenly found all his friends worshiping the little silver god—Job. Which made him rather a heretic as all the gasoline tabernacles were overstocked with college graduates, and he hated to get up in the mornings, anyway. So he took inventory: He had driven an ambulance, packed tobacco, studied archaeology, dabbled in Chinese, written gags in New York and dated a widow. Which prepared him for nothing—except writing. So he wrote stories and stories and more stories, and they came back and kept coming back.</p>
        <p>Then Dr. Phillips Russell, author and teacher of creative writing at the University of North Carolina, told your author about George Lawrence Andrews, literary agent and critic over at Raleigh. So I talked to him and he read my stories. “Good,” he said, “but they don’t fit any market because they weren’t aimed at any. You must specialize. I’ll back you if I can find out what you can do.” After more talk, he seemed to make up his mind about me. Maybe my “stark unusuality” made him see something in me I hadn’t guessed at myself. Anyway, he suggested science fiction. And science fiction it was, and quicker than either of us expected he sent me a check, and soon another, and another.</p>
        <p>Now, it is with naive pleasure that your editor has been found pecuniary, and his readers as described in my first paragraph.</p>

        <h2 class="left">An old acquaintance well worth renewing...</h2>

        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">R</span>AY CUMMINGS, space-story pioneer, author of “The Girl From Infinite Smallness,” owes his success to no fluke of fate. For five years he was Thomas Edison’s assistant. Before that he’d done many things: timber cruised, drilled for the black fold of Wyoming, worked on a Porto Rican orange plantation.</p>
        <p>He’s lived in Bermuda and Quebec and Florida. In his wanderings he’s weathered both hurricanes and automobile accidents. He’s been shipwrecked in a terrible Atlantic gale, and on that occasion, his daughter, then a mere infant, was adrift with her parents in an open boat.</p>
        <p>The shipwreck was a long time ago, says Cummings. Nothing very different has happened to me since then. The daughter is now fourteen. At the age of 13, under the name of Elizabeth Starr, she wrote her first fiction story—and sold it to <i>Liberty Magazine</i>.</p>
        <p>We have been through several hurricanes since; we seem to specialize in hurricanes: at sea, and in Florida and Bermuda. Somehow, I’m not afraid of hurricanes; but I am most uncomfortable when lightning is around. By the way, I wonder if any of your readers have ever encountered horizontal lightning? It’s much more uncomfortable than the common or garden vertical variety. We lived, one summer, on a mountain top in Tennessee. Thunderstorms there are sometimes about on a level with you—and when a bolt flashes at you horizontally it is uncomfortable.</p>
        <p>Maybe your readers have encountered something like the following: In Bermuda once, during violent electric storm—mid-afternoon in a bedroom <i>with windows and door closed</i>—I was aware of a smell like chlorine gas, perhaps; saw a purple-violet sheen of light on the floor near a bureau. When I stooped to investigate I saw, on the floor—or hovering quite near it under the bureau—a ball of purple-violet about as big as your head. It seemed about to come at me, and I got out of the room in a hurry. When I went cautiously back a minute later, it had gone. The floor was not scorched. There was no sign of anything.</p>
        <p>A few minutes later, In the living room—which had a window open—the same ball appeared in midair over the radio. It floated swiftly to the fireplace, poised an instant on the top of an andiron, then went swiftly past my head and out the window. My wife, in the kitchen, let out a cry. I rushed there. She said the ball came in the kitchen window, missed her head, and went out the kitchen door.</p>
        <p>Nice little playmate to have in the house with you, on a summer afternoon in Bermuda!</p>
        <p>Can your readers tell me what it was? St. Elmo’s Fire? Ionized air? Or what?</p>

        <h2 class="left">Not For Art’s Sake—</h2>
        <p class="fp"><span class="dropcaps">U</span>NLESS it contributes something new, no magazine is worth its salt. In this issue Planet presents two new artists: Jean Fawcette (<i>The Tantalus Death</i>) and Bill Edwards, (<i>Dictator of Time,</i> and <i>Revolution on the Earth-Star</i>). Fawcette, a young Missourian, just recently arrived in New York. Edwards acquired his sophisticated style on a Wyoming cattle ranch, polished it last summer at the Swift Packing Company’s N. Y. World’s Fair exhibit, where he worked as a guide. Maybe you remember him: tall, 6’3”, and much like the men in his own drawings.</p>
        <p>How does the work of these two boys compare with that of veterans such as Morey?</p>
    </body>
</html>
