<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body id="vizigraph">
        <h1>THE VIZIGRAPH</h1>

        <p><span class="dropcaps">M</span><b>ARTIANS, Venusians, Saturnians, Neptunians and Brooklynlans—you’re invited, all of you, to vizigraph in your messages. Kicks, kudos, bombs and bouquets—our expert operator can take it. All PS asks is that you make your vizigrams helpful and interesting.</b></p>

        <h2>NOTHING, IF NOT FRANK...</h2>

        <p class="right"><span class="smallcaps">Olon F. Wiggins,</span> <i>Editor:</i><br /><span class="smallcaps">The Science Fiction Fan</span></p>
        <p class="right">November 7, 1939</p>
        <p class="right">Denver, Colorado</p>

        <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span></p>
        <p class="noindent">461 Eighth Ave.,</p>
        <p class="noindent">N. Y. C, N. Y.</p>
        <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Mr:—</span></p>
        <p>Just a few words in regards to your new publication <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>. About the only thing that can be said in its favor is that it is a science fiction magazine. Your choice of reading matter is something awful, and I don’t mean please. As a collector’s item I welcome the magazine. As something to read, it just doesn’t click. I’ll naturally buy all that you publish, which probably won’t be very many, unless you change your story policy, and unless you do change your policy, I can only hope that this is the <span class="smallcaps">first</span> and <span class="smallcaps">last</span> issue. The yarns can’t be rated, as one is just as putrid as the next, so I won’t even undertake the job. Most first issues are, as a rule, not very good, so maybe by the next issue, providing, of course, that there is another one, you will have made some changes for the better. This being the case, I can only hope that you have a lot of luck with the effort, and that you will soon be in a position to go monthly, and that you show a letter department in the second date.</p>
        <p>Until later, then....</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">Olon F. Wiggins.</p>

        <h2>SO WE SAID...</h2>

        <p class="right">December 22, 1939</p>
        <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">Mr. Olon F. Wiggins</span></p>
        <p class="noindent"><span class="smallcaps">The Science Fiction Fan</span></p>
        <p class="noindent">Denver, Colorado</p>
        <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Mr. Wiggins:</p>
        <p>I appreciate your straight-from-the-shoulder letter on <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>. Fortunately, not everyone who has read it agrees with you.</p>
        <p>I would appreciate any advice you care to offer as there is no question in my mind but what <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>, or practically any other magazine, can be greatly improved, and I gather from your letter that you understand the field.</p>
        <p>Also, I’d like to publish your letter but I can’t help feeling that we ought to tone it down just a trifle as it’s somewhat too derogatory the way it stands.</p>
        <p>Hoping to hear from you again.</p>
        <p>Cordially,</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">The Editor.</p>

        <h2>AND HE SAID ...</h2>

        <p class="noindent smallcaps">Sir:</p>
        <p>I have your letter of 12/22 to hand and am taking this opportunity to answer it.</p>
        <p>I have always had a deuce of a time getting most of my letters to stf magazine editors printed, probably, because, as you put it, “straight-from-the-shoulder,” “too derogatory.” I usually mean it in all good faith, however, and always hope that the editors take it that way. I’m pleased to note, however, from your letter, that everyone doesn’t agree with me.</p>
        <p>Most stf magazines have a set policy for stories, and I’ve found that they always follow that policy regardless of what the readers might think of it. What I like in a story, someone else would not like, so it’s tough on the editor, eh? So I see no reason to try to give you any advice on how to run the magazine. Probably the best way to run it, from yours and the publisher’s viewpoint, is the way in which it will clear the most cash. There are some who read stf who would read it regardless of how bad the material therein happened to be (such as myself), others will quit the magazine for one which satisfies their particular taste in stf. If you are really open to helpful suggestions, the letters you receive should be of some assistance to you. I’m glad that you know that your magazine, since it is the first issue, can be improved, this applies to most all first efforts, and I hope you really make an effort to do just that. I understand the field of stf from my angle, and really think I could make a stf magazine work, but my policy probably differs quite considerably with yours, so instead of trying to give you any advice on how to run the magazine, I will just keep my mouth shut.</p>
        <p>If you have to cut my letter to you to make it printable, I would be just as well satisfied if you didn’t print it at all. Cutting letters is a policy I don’t favor. Either print them in their entirety, or not at all, is my way of looking at it. So if it is not too late to leave it out of the second issue, do just that.</p>
        <p>Looking forward to the next issue, I remain a reader and booster for <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>.</p>
        <p>Truly,</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">Olon F. Wiggins/SFF.</p>
        <p>Ed.’s Note: NO CUT.</p>

        <div class="hr"/>

        <h2>THANK YOU...</h2>

        <p class="right">11 Kappel Pl.,</p>
        <p class="right">Rochester, N. Y.,</p>
        <p class="right">Oct. 28, 1939.</p>
        <p class="noindent"><i>Editor,</i> <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories—</span></p>
        <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Sir:</p>
        <p>Having noticed that you intend to issue <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> in the very near future, may I congratulate you and wish you the best of luck in the Science Fiction Field.</p>
        <p>May I add a few suggestions? <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> should come out more often than the scheduled quarterly printing. It should have some departments—author’s biographies, story departments or something to do with science or science-fiction. Preferably something to do with the planets in view of your title.</p>
        <p>It ought to contain a letter department where the readers can “air” their views.</p>
        <p>No Science Fiction magazine yet published has as yet been able to get along without this reader’s department.</p>
        <p>As to <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> the title is well taken. We have needed such a mag. title for a long time.</p>
        <p>And there are any number of good authors capable of writing good interplanetary stories.</p>
        <p>And now will close wishing you the best of luck again and hoping for a reply in a few days, I remain,</p>
        <p>Sincerely</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">Bernard A. Seufert.</p>

        <div class="hr"/>

        <h2>PRATT AND MANNING, NO. 1?</h2>
        <p class="right">Lincoln, Nebr.</p>
        <p class="right">Nov. 6, 1939</p>
        <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
        <p>I just finished reading No. 1, Vol. 1 of <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span>. There is no indication in the mag. that you want letters from readers, but science-fiction fans being chronic letter writers, you are bound to get such letters, so you may as well have mine.</p>
        <p>Best story is “Expedition to Pluto.” Pratt and Manning know their science-fiction. Their science is adequate and their style is good, the girl fits into the story (instead of being a more or less decorative addition dragged in by the hair, as is so often the case.) A story satisfactory to most fans, I think.</p>
        <p>Second place goes to “War Lords of the Moon.” This is definitely a “type” story. “Earth man downs rebels on neighboring world, saves Earth, wins girl.” It is a little better than average for the type. But if the Lunarians are aboriginal, as is suggested in the story, they are strangely “husky,” for natives of a world having one-sixth Earth gravity. Mating of the Lunar maiden and the rather satisfactory hero, Ross, is scarcely a possibility (assuming they are not descended from a common human ancestry). Finally, the rocket-ship defies all rules for rocket-ship travel. No such vessel could make the trip to the moon in the manner described. It is elementary that such a vessel cannot maintain uniform velocity while the rockets are firing while out in space. The ship could make the trip in two ways. It could accelerate until it reached a desired velocity (not less than the “velocity of escape” of about 2500 m.p.h. near the Earth) then coast at that rate until nearly to the moon, and decelerate. Or it could accelerate steadily until about halfway there, then decelerate the rest of the way. There are other factors, but these are the simple points familiar to most science-fiction readers. I realize that this matter is not fundamental to this particular story, but accuracy in such details adds a lot to any story.</p>
        <p>Third place goes to “The Cave Dwellers of Saturn,” <i>tridium</i> is certainly remarkable stuff. And as for finding an obviously heavy, radio-active substance in caves near the surface of Saturn, which has a specific gravity less than water—well, rather doubtful, it seems. Murdock, the heroic villain, or something, is pretty unconvincing. Nothing to say about the spare-ship, since it isn’t rocket-driven. Best thing in the story was the series of events, beginning with the girl stowing away, which culminated in the discovery of the tridium.</p>
        <p>“The Golden Amazons of Venus” brings up the rear, although it isn’t far behind “The Cave-Dwellers of Saturn.” As a matter of fact, it is more convincing than the latter. However, the plot is so moth-eaten that only a story outstanding in other respects could justify its use. This story isn’t that, but it is a pretty fair adventure story, although with a rather juvenile appeal. The ship is cockeyed, with its “maximum velocity of 50,000 m.p.h.” It should have an <i>average</i> velocity of about that for the trip, reached by one of the two methods mentioned in reference to “War Lords of the Moon.” And I’m afraid those dolphins would have drowned on that long underwater trip. They are mammals, not fish, you know.</p>
        <p>All in all, the magazine is pretty fair for a first issue, with one good story, one average one, and two others not too bad.</p>
        <p>I like the length of the stories, and the idea of devoting the entire mag. to inter-planetary tales appeals to me especially. They are my favorite type. I should like to have them more adult in appeal. I like also, the absence of puzzles and other such “features.”</p>
        <p>Here is a list of some recent good stories which may be termed “planet stories....:”*</p>
        <p>Here’s hoping for continued success.</p>
        <p>Yours sincerely,</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">D. B. Thompson,</p>
        <p class="right">3136 “Q” St.</p>

        <p>Ed.’s. Note: *ONLY CUT.</p>

        <h2>EXHIBIT B.</h2>

        <p class="right">December 22, 1939</p>
        <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Mr. Thompson:</p>
        <p>I was exceedingly interested in your keen analysis of the various stories and I’m sure your letter will be a great help.</p>
        <p>We seem to have contrary opinions in one or two respects as I felt <span class="smallcaps">The Golden Amazons of Venus</span> was pretty good. Incidentally, I mentioned your comment to Mr. Reynolds in regard to the dolphins and he told me to tell you that while the word may have been misleading, dolphin should not be confused with porpoise as it is a medieval term for an animal which no one is certain ever existed.</p>
        <p>Anyway, I wonder if you would consider giving me permission to print your letter in the next issue. It’s a little long so I would have to cut it in several places but I believe the other readers would be exceedingly interested. I would also appreciate hearing from you again as you seem to be very well versed on the subject.</p>
        <p>Cordially,</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">The Editor.</p>

        <h2>MAYBE HE’S RIGHT ABOUT THE DOLPHINS....</h2>

        <p class="right">Lincoln, Nebr.</p>
        <p class="right">Dec. 26, 1939</p>
        <p class="noindent"><i>Editor</i>, <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span></p>
        <p class="noindent smallcaps">Dear Sir:</p>
        <p>Well, well—the editor writes the fan—that is much like the man biting the dog, only more interesting.</p>
        <p>Of course, you may use my previous letter, in any form you choose. And if you think <span class="smallcaps">Planet Stories</span> will best be served by printing only the “boquets” and deleting <i>all</i> the “brickbats” I heaved your way, it is O. K. with me, although I won’t agree with you in such a policy.</p>
        <p>My apologies to Mr. Reynolds anent the dolphin—his information on the subject is undoubtedly more comprehensive than mine, although I think the dolphin is usually identified with the porpoise. Incidentally, I don’t want you to misunderstand my criticism of <i>The Golden Amazons of Venus</i>—it is a pretty good story of the type popularized by Edgar Rice Burroughs: but so many such stories have been published that the <i>type</i>, regardless of <i>quality</i>, has lost its punch.</p>
        <p>Well, you will hear from me again.</p>
        <p>Yours sincerely,</p>
        <p class="right smallcaps">D. B. Thompson.</p>
    </body>
</html>
