<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body id="story">
            <h1>THE VIZIGRAPH</h1>

            <p><span class="dropcaps">S</span>O here we are again, you vizifans, with a bundle of kicks, kudos, bombs and bouquets for our expert operator to take in his galactic stride.</p>
            <p>We like your letters, particularly the ones that make constructive suggestions and criticisms about Planet Stories. So send them in; we’ll take a look, and pass on the ones that we believe to be the cream of the crop. The race for win, place and show in the Summer futurity just about forced a photo-finish.</p>
            <p>But at the finish, the letters ranked like this:</p>
            <p class="noindent">1—D. C. Montgomery, Jr., 2—Mrs. Margaret Wells, 3—Bill Stoy.</p>

            <p class="fp title">CHOOSE YER WEPPONS, GENTS!</p>
            <p class="right">The Chastleton, #222<br />Washington, D. C.</p>
            <p class="smallcaps">Dear Editor:</p>
            <p>Yeaaaah man! Jive—jive—jive—splutter, bombast and boasts. Several pages of ditto <i>ad nauseam</i> (which has been condensed for convenience in printing).</p>
            <p>There! Now that I’ve taken care of that (the winning of the coming sweepstakes, I mean) I'll continue with my epistle.</p>
            <p>Frankly it looks like you have to inaugurate a new language to place in this business anymore. And here I am gnashing my molars to the gums on account of missing the deadline with my last letter. My best letter to date—I felt—it was written in Sanskrit. Oh well, procrastination is the thief of Planet illustrations. Lord help me if I were writing letters for a monthly publication. Of course I might make a bi-monthly????</p>
            <p>Third place? I should kick, with the competition getting as stiff as it is. Thanks, peoples, for the votes. Haven’t any cigars, like Asimov, and I don’t go in for political smooching. However, I do have a carton of Avalon cigarettes and a batch of autographed rejection slips. Come, let’s all pull for first place this time.</p>
            <p>Comes now the usual. Best cover to date, which remark is becoming consistent with every new issue of Planet. Saunders draws good babes. If we’re going to have women on the cover (and we evidently are) let him or Finlay do ’em. I was a bit disappointed with the Spring wench.</p>
            <p>Worst prize in illustrations goes to Hoskins. He must have recently graduated from Terrible Tales or sumsuch, but I think he better go back for a P.G. course. He’s not quite ready for <span class="smallcaps">Planet</span>, but give him another chance anyway.</p>
            <p>First prize in illustrations—Lynch on page 71. Even though the crack-up doesn’t look like an “unbelievable shambles,” and I can’t figure out what the babe is sticking her head out for (symbolical, perhaps?) it’s the best of his work so far. Following in order: Morey on p. 83, Leydenfrost on p. 21, Morey on p. 59, Paul on p. 43 (a come back?), Leydenfrost on p. 3, and Morey (I think) on p. 31. (I know—these parentheses look like the devil, but I don’t how else to slip it in—I throw in too many commas, anyhow).</p>
            <p>This is about the hardest issue to rate since I’ve been reading P. S. The average is so high it’s hard to pick first place in the stories.—The pause here is for three hours consumed in tearing at my tonsorial appendage and biting my nails off, up to the elbows, trying to figure out who rates first.</p>
            <p>After weighty deliberation (and notice the improvement in my typing, since I’ve been using my elbows) I bestow the laurel wreath to Dirk Wylie for Asteroid of the Damned. The plot wasn’t breath-taking, and I think it rates because of the characterization. My only complaint is on the Chinese money belt. I read the story over again, but couldn’t find the trace of a plant for this denouement Some more observant fan will probably pop up with it, but I couldn’t find it.</p>
            <p>Task to Lahri takes the strongest possible second place, in fact, I’m still wondering why not first. The look-over-your shoulder-and-under-the-bed complex engendered by the unwordly atmosphere was the best in a long time.</p>
            <p>Although I think Mr. Hasse’s letter is almost better than his story, Out of this World takes third place for the ability to create pictures or scenes in my mind as I read. (Which aforementioned fact is the test of fire, or sumpun’. Lord help us if this starts another Asinine affair 1)</p>
            <p>Captain Chaos and Cosmic Derelict take fourth together. Broome seems to me a great deal like Bond, but this is not an accusation—just an opinion.</p>
            <p>Fifth place to Smith for As it Was, although the “z” business almost wore me to a frazzle reading it. (Try reading it out loud, that’s fun</p>
            <p>Mr. Wellman didn’t quite click with me this time. I usually like his work, and I can’t exactly put my finger on the reason I didn’t like this one, yet... sixth.</p>
            <p>If all the stories in the magazine were by Cummings, The Star Master would take first place, however, there was only one, so unfortunately he gets the back door again.</p>
            <p>Grandiloquent Gifford’s celestial cartoon series commences commendably, in fact, should be a smashing success. But don’t tell me they’re going to replace the Feature Flash.</p>
            <p>Comes the sweepstakes and first place for Henry (that’s to make up for the rating on the story, and—ha ha ha—remember?) Second to Stoy. His idea of an organization for Vizi-grapheers has been curdling in my cranium for some time. I almost broached the subject myself. Come on, fellas’, how about it? Think we can do anything with it? I’ll volunteer mv services—for what they’re worth—in any capacity. Third place to the Happy Genius, for his cunning conceit.</p>

            <p class="space">This last chapter of my book is devoted to a re-hash of my missive that missed. It will probably be cut by Ye Editore, but I hated to see so much concentrated cogitation condemned to circumduction.</p>
            <p>When I picked up my first copy of Planet I hesitated some time before buying it. Then the reckless bucaneering spirit that lurks within every reader of science-fiction said: “Go ahead! It’s only twenty cents! Take a chance 1” Reading merrily along, I finally passed the portals of the Vizigraph. Well! Well! And WELL! For my twenty cents I not only got an interesting magazine, but at the same time became eligible in this business of taking cracks at editors, authors, readers and illustrators. What more could you ask for such a small investment? And so—I joined the army of Vizigrapheers.</p>
            <p>A short while back I remember one reader who would spend his last two dimes for our beloved alma maga, instead of stuffing himself with a double double chocolate soda. At the time I canted a quizzical eyebrow at the fellow—now, I agree with him heartily.</p>
            <p>Part of the other letter was a protest about certain magazines, but realizing it might be libel, I’ll censor part of it. No! This is getting too long already, I’ll cut it out.</p>
            <p>A brief essay on editors and then I’ll shut up and crawl into a hole until the next issue. (Somebody will probably be glad to dig one for me.)</p>
            <p>The editors of <i>some</i> of these magazines have tried to get the spirit of fellowship, camaraderie, hail-fellow-well-met, or what have you into their reader departments, etc., but I feel they tried too hard or something. At least they don’t make it</p>
            <p>Planet Stories has an editor who has achieved perfection in this business of descending from Olympus to shake hands with mere mortals. The mixture of interest, cordiality and perhaps we can even say camaraderie, has made (and is making) Planet the best magazine in the field. And if anybody wants to argue it out, the line forms on the left for bops on the beez-ers and on the right for nasty letters.</p>
            <p class="right">Hasta la vista, Amigos?<br /><span class="smallcaps">William A. Conover.</span></p>

            <p class="fp title">VOKANTA KANADON!</p>
            <p class="right">Box 6475 Met. Sta.,<br />Los Angeles, Cal.</p>
            <p class="small caps">Kara Redaktisto:</p>
            <p>Saluton! Kaj hola Sinjoro Goldsmith. This is the voice of MOROJO, calling Canada... in response to your paging me in the Vintra (Winter) edition of PS.</p>
            <p>Few facts about myself? “Morojo” is derived from the initials of my maiden name, according to the Esperanto alfabeto, with a decisive “d” soffend to “j,” which in the tung of tomoro equals the English “y.” Thus my adopted name is pronounced: Mo-ro'yo.</p>
            <p>I am a “proto-J” of the famous 4sJ, World Stfan No. I and my mentor. He made me what I am today, I hope he’s satis fyd! I was familiar with science fiction bfor 4e was born, but I never payd attention to authors, readers’ columns or clubs til Fojak (that’s his Esperanto name) came along and turnd me into a fan.</p>
            <p>Now I have a collection of hundreds of professional magazines and hundreds more of the fan, co-edit Voice of the Imagination and Novacious, have attended over 150 meetings of the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society, am Librarian of the Shangri-LA group, been to both the Nycon and Chicon (New Yo.-k and Chicago Science Fiction Conventions) and am member No. 2 of the organization sponsoring 1941’s convention in Denver (the Denvention). I have seen such authors as Ray Cummings, Eando Binder, Ed Earl Repp, Nelson S. Bond, Ross Rocklynne, Henry Kuttner, Helen Weinbaum, Dr. Keller, Ray Palmer, Manly Wade Wellman, Edmond Hamilton, Ralph Milne Farley, Harl Vincent and Jno W. Campbell, Jr. I noe Robt. Heinlein per-sonly, have danced with Jack Williamson at Earl Carroll’s, tho I can scarcely believe it, have spoken with Paul “Skylark” Smith and H. G. Wells!</p>
            <p>Thanx for the intrest in me. Bon-sancon k sukceson al PLANED-FABELOJ!</p>
            <p class="right"><span class="smallcaps">Morojo.</span></p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
