<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="story">
            <h1>THE FEATURE FLASH</h1>
            <h2><i>By </i></h2>
            <h3><span class="dropcaps">F</span>LASHING you the highlights on one of the men you’ve met in preceding issues—those cosmic-minded writers who help to nourish Planet Stories.</h3>

            <p>Wilbur S. Peacock came into the office the other day, to discuss a new novelette he has slated for Planet. Since it was the first time we had met him personally, and remembering the fans’ discussions about his stories, in the Vizigraph, we asked him to jot down a few facts that he thought would make an interesting Feature Flash.</p>
            <p>This is what he told us:</p>
            <p>I’m an old-timer when it comes to talking science-fiction. I was practically teethed on Planetary stories, starting back when Hugo Gernsback was the pioneer in the magazine field.</p>
            <p>I just sort of graduated from reading them to writing them, along with yarns in other fields. And, frankly, I think I would prefer writing good stf-fiction to any other kind.</p>
            <p>I’ve done a lot of travelling and studying in the past few years, primarily to enjoy living; secondarily, to give my writing that natural swing and rhythm that will get the readers’ “Okay.”</p>
            <p>If I don’t do as well as some of the others, it’s not because I’m not trying, it’s because I just can’t. But hang around—I’ll burn up a typewriter some day, and produce a really good yarn.</p>
            <p>I’m one of those guys who thinks the “World of Tomorrow” is being born today, and if a yarn of mine gives a new thought or conception to a person now, I shall feel amply repaid for my efforts.</p>
            <p>On the strictly personal side, I top six feet by a couple of inches, have the kind of shape that is used as the first picture in those “before and after” ads. I’m single, classified IB by the army, and-my idea of real exercise is the raising of my voice about twice a day.</p>
            <p>I like to write, fish, read, loaf, and read the kisses and kicks about my stuff in the Vizigraph. Incidentally, I’m a Kansan.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
