<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body id="story">
            <h1>PS’s Feature Flash</h1>
            <h3>FLASHING you the highlights on one of the men you’ve met in preceding issues—those cosmic-minded writers and artists who help to nourish PLANET STORIES and the Visigraph.</h3>

            <p class="fp"><b>WORLD SWEEPER</b></p>
            <p>Well, you asked for it...</p>
            <p>My vital statistics are: Born March 4, 1913, and have been bothering folks ever since; married since 1934 to Lorraine, but how she puts up with me I’ll probably never know; have four very nice children (but then I’m prejudiced). We call them the 4Js. Jacqueline, Jeraldine, James and Jon.</p>
            <p>My life has been a full one, and I hope will continue to be so. My positions have been interesting, covering many fields. In the late twenties and early thirties I spent some time touring the country with “tent shows,” called by the dignified title of Chatauqua.</p>
            <p>The winter of ’33-’34 I spent touring the Orient with an orchestra playing spots in China, Japan, the Philippines and on shipboard. It was on this trip that I became interested in my hobby—the study of people and their philosophies.</p>
            <p>For a time I taught school, but the low pay scale sent me back to my first love, the theatre. I now work as a projectionist and indulge in my hobby wherever I may find it. I particularly enjoy searching in dark corners where prejudice and tradition have been broken down. I enjoy reading the philosophies that dreamers put down in the form of fantasy. The world-sweeping ideas that would shock the populace if unveiled in any form other than fiction. I deplore the many trivial thoughts put down by mediocre writers with, frankly, nothing but nerve, and read by a gullible public because it’s fashionable to read best sellers.</p>
            <p>In spring of 1942 Lorraine and I decided to publish a “newsletter” to our friends in the services. It was this publication that brought us into contact with Science Fiction Fandom. We soon began doing Fantasy Fiction Field for Unger, contacted E. Everett Evans, president of the National Fantasy Fan Federation, and really began to learn how much a hobby can be enjoyed by sharing it with others.</p>
            <p>Activities in fan clubs, publishing efforts, correspondence with friendly editors like Chet White-horn, letters from other fans have taught us that merely reading and enjoying Stf and Fantasy is not enough. We believe that we are now approaching the ultimate satisfaction of our hobby, fan life, by activity in the National Fantasy Fan Federation, a general group open to all fans; our local club, in similar fashion; Fantasy Amateur Press Association, in which each fan specializes in some field and gives to all the benefits of his work; and reading of the many amateur journals published by fans in the field. Such pleasure would not be possible for us were it not for the pro fields with such publications as our own Planft Stories.</p>
            <p class="author">Walter Dunkelberger.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
