<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>PLANET STORIES</title>
        <link href="css/book.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    </head>
    <body id="story">
            <h1>PS’s Feature Flash</h1>
            <h3><span class="dropcaps">F</span>LASHING you the highlights on one of the men you’ve met in preceding issues—those cosmic-minded writers and artists who help to nourish Planet Stories and the Vizigraph.</h3>
            <h2 class="left">DREAMER MAN</h2>

            <p>I’ve never been to the planet, Mars, though at times, I’ve thought that what I really need is a two-weeks’ vacation on some such place. (Who knows, maybe I’ll get one. One is never sure where he’ll end up when he starts out to be an artist.) Of course, I’ve been out of this world before, but only figuratively speaking, and that certainly was not the case when I met Mr. Chet Whitehorn, Editor of Planet.</p>
            <p>I was looking for work up at his office, and he presented me with a word picture of some fantastic half-man, three-quarters beast, to be used in an illustration. Now, Chet’s really okay, but at times he gets some rather peculiar ideas about art, as is the case with most editors—or maybe it’s me who’s wrong—I’ve known that to happen, too. But that’s what we artists have to put up with. We manage—somehow. We’re a rugged lot.</p>
            <p>At any rate, my introduction to the working details of the outer Universe left my poor mind in somewhat of a dither. After all, I’m only a farm boy, steeped in the moo-o-o-ings and neigh-ings of the barnyard. I know about muskrats, have made personal contacts with skunks and even succeeded in getting butted in the rear by a pet ram. But when I was suddenly thrown up into the lands of celestial imagination, my very dreams were invaded. Day and night, awake or asleep, grotesque creatures groped their way in and out of my subconscious, slithering, hairy things slid silently from one brain cell to another while in the background lurked a host of mis-shapen, hideous monsters, their wide eyes staring as they crouched and menaced in the eternal gloom of outer space. And, through it all, with firm step and steadfast faith in her limpid eyes, slowly strode a lightly-clad and bee-u-tiful maiden, radiant and luscious, followed by our little hero and his ray-gun.</p>
            <p>I don’t remember how I got started on this business of being an artist. (I suppose there are a few nasty people who look at my stuff and wonder why I want to keep on being one.)</p>
            <p>If I keep at it long enough, it’s possible I may be able to walk into a publisher’s office and be greeted with the respect due a great personage, but I doubt it. By that time they’ll know me too well.</p>
            <p>Oh, well, that’s the way life is, I suppose. At the moment I feel more like dashing off a snappy PLANET illustration than being a philosopher. Where did I leave my rocket ship? Who knows, perhaps one day I, too, shall crack up my trusty little ship on some far-off planet, meet a real live Princess of Venus and spend the rest of my days looking up at the little bright world in the sky that I used to look up from.</p>
            <p class="right smallcaps">H. W. Kiemle.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
